Nominated for 1 Golden Globe. Another 14 wins & 34 nominations. See more awards " Storyline Barry Egan hates himself and hates his life. The only male among eight siblings, Barry is treated poorly by his overbearing sisters without them probably even realizing it. Despite owning his own business, he has gotten nowhere in life largely because of his insecurities. He leads a solitary life, which allows him to hide his violent outbursts that occur when he's frustrated. His solitude however allows him to think, he stumbling upon a scheme to travel the world on a pittance, travel which he has never done. Concurrently, he meets two people who pull him in two different directions. The first is Lena Leonard, a friend of his sister Elizabeth. Barry is slow to realize that Lena is attracted to him, he making her make all the first moves. Lena is eventually able to get Barry out of his shell, she who sticks around despite his obvious problems. His burgeoning relationship and thus new life with Lena is threatened by the second, "Georgia", who he contacted in an effort to alleviate his ... Written by Huggo Details Release Date: 1 November 2002 (USA) Box Office Budget: $25,000,000 (estimated) Opening Weekend: $367,203 (USA) (11 October 2002) Gross: $17,791,031 (USA) (13 December 2002) Company Credits Technical Specs Color: Color (Technicolor) See full technical specs " Did You Know? Trivia For much of the movie, Barry is obsessed with store-bought pudding cups. In Billy Madison (1995), Billy is particularly fond of pudding cups in his school lunch, or 'Snack Pack' as he refers to them. See more " Goofs When Barry punches the wall under the map, the map is stuck inside the hole. Later, there is a quick shot of him in front of the map again where you can see the hole above the map, but in the next shot, the map is clearly still stuck inside the hole. See more " Quotes [first lines] : Yes, I'm still on hold. Phone Rep: And what was this? : I'm looking at your advertisement for the airline promotion and giveaway. Phone Rep: Ah, the 10 for 1 mile plan... : Yeah, it's hard to understand, because it says "in addition to". But I can't exactly understand in addition to what? Because there's actually nothing to add to. Phone Rep: I think that's a typo then.h : Okay, so just to clarify - I'm sorry - 10 purchases of any of your healthy choice products equals 500 miles, and with the coupon, the same purchase ... [...] See more " Crazy Credits Egan's seven sisters are credited collectively as "The Sisters." The four brothers who pursue and assault him are credited collectively as "The Brothers." See more " Soundtracks Waikiki Written by Andy Cummings Performed by Ladies K See more " User Reviews Message Boards Recent Posts