Nominated for 1 BAFTA Film Award. Another 18 wins & 10 nominations. See more awards " Storyline Visible only to those like them and to human children, Damiel and Cassiel are two angels, who have existed even before humankind. Along with several other angels, they currently wander around West Berlin, generally on their own, observing and preserving life, sometimes trying to provide comfort to the troubled, although those efforts are not always successful. Among those they are currently observing are: the cast and crew of a movie - a detective story set in WWII Nazi Germany - which include a sensitive and perceptive Peter Falk ; an elderly man named Homer looking for eternal peace; and the troupe of a financially failing circus, which has closed early for the season because of those financial problems. One day, Damiel tells Cassiel that he wants to become human, to feel not only the sensory aspects of physical beings, but also emotional aspects. He embarks on this thought with the full realization that there is no turning back if he decides to do so. His thoughts are largely ... Written by Huggo Taglines: There are angels on the streets of Berlin. Details Release Date: 6 May 1988 (USA) Also Known As: The Sky Above Berlin Box Office Gross: $3,806,540 (USA) (18 September 1998) Company Credits Technical Specs See full technical specs " Did You Know? Trivia Wim Wenders originally wanted Peter Handke to collaborate on the script. Handke declined to work on the script as a whole but agreed to write a set number of important scenes which Wenders could then work around. See more " Goofs After Damiel becomes human, he buys a cup of coffee at a food stand. The proprietor pours coffee into a plastic cup, and Damiel immediately takes a large gulp - neither of which would be possible if the coffee were hot, as it would be if it were freshly poured. See more " Quotes [first lines] [in German, using English subtitles] : [voiceover] When the child was a child, it walked with its arms swinging. It wanted the stream to be a river, the river a torrent, and this puddle to be the sea. When the child was a child, it didn't know it was a child. Everything was full of life, and all life was one. When the child was a child, it had no opinion about anything, no habits. It often sat cross-legged, took off running, had a cowlick in its hair, and didn't make faces when ... See more " Crazy Credits Dedicated to all the former angels, but especially to Yasujiro, François and Andrej. See more " Connections Spoofed in Begleiter (2006) See more " Soundtracks The Carny by Nick Cave & The Bad Seeds (as Nick Cave and The Bad Seeds) See more " Frequently Asked Questions User Reviews Message Boards Recent Posts