Atom Bank Atom Bank has officially launched its iPhone and iPad app - the only way you'll be able to interact with the new bank. The app is built on the Unity gaming platform and promises to use voice and face biometrics for login - essentially analysing a selfie or a voice clip to make sure you are who you say you are. The bank says it will also use machine learning and AI to help optimise its customer service team, another way Atom is using innovative technology. Atom CEO Mark Mullen says in a release announcing the launch: This is the start of a remarkable transformation of the banking landscape for everyone. Atom aims to offer a genuine alternative to the insidious and self-interested banks that dominate the UK banking landscape. Our approach will be to constantly evolve and extend our offering, with monthly updates to our App and a dedication to providing a better value, greater transparency and a much more innovative banking experience. Mullen joined Atom as CEO in April 2014 . Prior to joining the startup he was CEO of HSBC's online and telephone bank First Direct. Atom's Founder and Chairman Anthony Thomson says in the press release: During 2016, Atom will be unveiling a further range of products and continuous App enhancements, with a phased roll-out of services throughout the year. By the end of 2016, customers will have access to fixed savings, current accounts, overdrafts, debit and credit cards, instant access savings and residential mortgages, all serviced via the App. Atom is one of a number of app-only banks, known as neobanks, launching this year in the UK. Others include Mondo , Starling Bank , and Tandem . Tandem yesterday launched an initiative to find "co-founders" of the bank, giving away shares in the bank in exchange for customer feedback and help designing the products . While all have yet to fully launch, Atom, based in Durham, is already worth £150 million, after Spanish banking group BBVA invested £45 million in November . Atom's app is currently available to people who have pre-registered interest on the company's website and is only available on iPhone and iPad. An Android version is coming soon. Here's what the app looks like on the inside: