20 wins & 25 nominations. See more awards " Storyline Late one night, a beautiful and well-dressed young woman, Grace, arrives in the mountainous old mining town of Dogville as a fugitive; following the sound of gunshots in the distance which have been heard by Tom, the self-appointed moral spokesman for the town. Persuaded by Tom, the town agree to hide Grace, and in return she freely helps the locals. However, when the Sheriff from a neighbouring town posts a Missing notice, advertising a reward for revealing her whereabouts, the townsfolk require a better deal from Grace, in return for their silence; and when the Sheriff returns some weeks later with a Wanted poster, even though the citizens know her to be innocent of the false charges against her, the town's sense of goodness takes a sinister turn and the price of Grace's freedom becomes a workload and treatment akin to that of a slave. But Grace has a deadly secret that the townsfolk will eventually encounter. Written by Neil Hillman. Taglines: A quiet little town not far from here. Details Release Date: 23 April 2004 (USA) Also Known As: The Film 'Dogville' as Told in Nine Chapters and a Prologue Box Office Budget: DKK 83,000,000 (estimated) Opening Weekend: $661,452 (France) (23 May 2003) Gross: $1,530,386 (USA) (11 June 2004) Company Credits Technical Specs See full technical specs " Did You Know? Trivia Paul Bettany didn't want to play Tom Edison because they were shooting it in Sweden. Then his friend Stellan Skarsgård told him that Lars von Trier 's shoots were so funny that "you'll miss something extraordinary if you turn the part down". After shooting half the movie Bettany asked Skarsgård when the fun would start, to which Skarsgård replied: "I lied. I did it because he is amazing to work with, and you wouldn't be able to see that before you were actually here yourself. I wanted to give you a chance, and you wouldn't have shown up if I had been frank with you." See more " Goofs When Chuck takes the scarf from Grace's neck it shows up two shots later, then is gone again in next shot. See more " Quotes [first lines] : This is the sad tale of the township of Dogville. Dogville was in the Rocky Mountains in the US of A, up here where the road came to its definitive end, near the entrance to the old abandoned silver mine. The residents of Dogville were good honest folks, and they liked their township. And while a sentimental soul from the East Coast had once dubbed their main street Elm Street, though no elm had ever cast its shadow in Dogville, they saw no reason to change anything. Most of the ... See more " Crazy Credits Closing credits play over photographs depicting crime and poverty in the United States. See more " Soundtracks America the Beautiful (uncredited) Lyrics by Katharine Lee Bates Music by Samuel A. Ward Sung by residents of Dogville on July 4th See more " User Reviews Message Boards Recent Posts