Top Rated Movies #119 | Nominated for 1 Oscar. Another 21 wins & 25 nominations. See more awards " Storyline In April of 1945, Germany stands at the brink of defeat with the Soviet Armies closing in from the west and south. In Berlin, capital of the Third Reich, Adolf Hitler proclaims that Germany will still achieve victory and orders his Generals and advisers to fight to the last man. "Downfall" explores these final days of the Reich, where senior German leaders (such as Himmler and Goring) began defecting from their beloved Fuhrer, in an effort to save their own lives, while still others (Joseph Goebbels) pledge to die with Hitler. Hitler, himself, degenerates into a paranoid shell of a man, full of optimism one moment and suicidal depression the next. When the end finally does comes, and Hitler lies dead by his own hand, what is left of his military must find a way to end the killing that is the Battle of Berlin, and lay down their arms in surrender. Written by Anthony Hughes {husnock31@hotmail.com} Taglines: April 1945, a nation awaits its... Details Release Date: 8 April 2005 (USA) Box Office Budget: €13,500,000 (estimated) Opening Weekend: $210,232 (Austria) (17 September 2004) Gross: $5,501,940 (USA) (10 June 2005) Company Credits Technical Specs Runtime: See full technical specs " Did You Know? Goofs Thomas Kretschmann portrayed SS Gruppenführer Hermann Fegelein, but his collar insignia is that of an SS Brigadeführer. Fegelein attained the rank of SS Obergruppenführer before being executed. His collar insignia should have a diamond below the leaves See more " Quotes [first lines] Traudl Junge : I've got the feeling that I should be angry with this child, this young and oblivious girl. Or that I'm not allowed to forgive her for not seeing the nature of that monster. That she didn't realise what she was doing. And mostly because I've gone so obliviously. Because I wasn't a fanatic Nazi. I could have said in Berlin, "No, I'm not doing that. I don't want to go the Führer's headquarters." But I didn't do that. I was too curious. I didn't realise that fate would lead me ... See more " Crazy Credits After the final credits there is a statement by the real Traudl Jung about her feelings of guilt and responsibility. In the British Cinema release, this is moved to before the credits. See more " Connections Edited into Er ist wieder da (2015) See more " Soundtracks Die Blauen Dragoner Sie Reiten (Hans Hertel / G.W. Harmssen) Courtesy of Voggenreiter Verlag, Bonn See more " User Reviews Message Boards Recent Posts