What a day at //build 2016! We're very proud of the wonderful new features coming in the Windows 10 Anniversary Update , many of which we showcased this morning. One of the areas we focused on today was Windows Ink, an all-new experience, putting the power of Windows in the tip of your pen. Windows Ink enables you to write on your device as you do on paper, creating sticky notes, drawing on a whiteboard, and easily sharing your analog thoughts in the digital world. Windows Ink is integrated into apps like Maps, Microsoft Edge, and Office. More than 70% of us spend more than one hour a day using a pen. We lose notes in our notebooks, take pictures of whiteboards, and can't do equations or music composition with a keyboard. In a world where billions of post-it notes are sold each year and more than 70% of people spend more than one hour a day using a pen, productivity can increase by incorporating writing into the computing experience. We're using Windows Ink to help people turn their thoughts into actions on their Windows 10 devices. Bryan Roper showcased some of the best Windows Ink features during his time on stage today, demonstrating how Windows Ink can help people not just create notes, or write like they are on a whiteboard - but also how Windows Ink integration into apps like Maps, Microsoft Edge, and Office can unlock the power of Windows 10 in truly unique and powerful ways. If you missed the keynote this morning you can watch it on demand here . We look forward to making Windows Ink available in the Windows 10 Anniversary Update this summer and expect to see broad adoption of Windows Ink in devices this year. Working closely with our OEM partners, there is strong demand for this innovative technology already. Another way we'll deliver that is via a recent partnership with Wacom . Wacom, a leader in digital pen hardware, has signed an agreement with Microsoft to create and produce Windows Ink capable solutions for the ecosystem. This will help provide customers with the best end-2-end Windows Ink experience. By combining Windows Ink technology, learnings from Surface and Wacom DNA into a high quality writing instrument built for Windows Ink, customers have an easy choice when they need an accessory pen. Customers should expect the pen to be available at retailers like Best Buy this holiday season. Today was an exciting day, as we shared all new innovations coming to Windows 10. We look forward to sharing more about Windows Ink and the growing ecosystem soon.