The world's largest Internet of Things (IoT) event has started today at the Santa Clara Convention Center, with over 12,000 attendees and 200 exhibitions expected to attend the two day event. And because the new connected world is so interwoven, this event will feature discussions on the industrial IoT , smart homes and cities, autonomous cars, wearables, intelligent devices, and healthcare all at the same event for the first time. That means organizes have combined several usually standalone events - including Internet of Things World, Future Connected Cars, Wearable World Congress, and Apps World North America - all together in one place. Some of the biggest names in the industry will be attending, including Apple, Intel, Samsung, and Microsoft. The three biggest car sharing services, Uber, Lyft, and Zipcar, will participate in a panel titled "Embracing shared mobility and the cultural implications to create smarter cities," alongside executives from the San Francisco Municipal Transportation Agency. "IoT for Cities" hackathon also kicks off GE subsidiary is sponsoring an "IoT for Cities Hackathon," which brings together developers and city innovators to tackle the thorniest of city issues; it takes places between May 11 - 12. Over 200 data scientists and urban experts will craft and develop products that will deliver today's and tomorrow's smart cities - and the winner receiving $10,000 in cash. For the whole rundown of the event, check out the IoT World event page . ReadWrite's team will be attending the event as well, including yours truly and our editor-in-chief, Christopher Caen . We'll be busy doing our share of panel moderating, but let us know if you have some news to share. As well, a whole contingent from our parent company, Wearable IoT World, will be at the event as well. Stop by and see us at our booth, on the trade show floor at #844, as well as two micro-booths at the Startup City - one for our accelerator program, WIoTW Labs, and one for the IoT Global Council. See you there.