Franz - from idea to 10,000 daily active users in 26 days This is the story of my desktop app Franz and how I was able to build an app from idea to 10,000 daily active users in less than a month with just a single post on Product Hunt . First of all, who is Franz? Franz is a free messaging app that combines chat & messaging services into one application. WhatsApp , Slack , HipChat , Facebook Messenger , Telegram , Google Hangouts , Skype and Grape are currently supported with more to follow soon. Download Franz for free here . Why build Franz? I'm using Facebook Messenger, WhatsApp, Skype, Grape and a couple of Slack teams on a daily basis . Since my buddies from orat.io became Telegram fanboys I now have one more service to add to that ever expanding list too. Being dependent on so many different messaging platforms is just plain frustrating. There are so many times where I have to switch from one browser tab to another, back to a messaging app, then to my mobile phone - just to pass some simple information or find an appointment with colleagues or friends. This is absolutely ridiculous -  the way how we communicate is broken! Why can't there be just one app for all the messengers? The beginning of Franz I wondered how it could be possible to bundle all the proprietary messengers into one app and almost gave up when I remembered that most of the major messengers provide web apps that are quite polished. Slack's native app on the Mac is actually a web app wrapped using a thing called " electron ". - This was Friday, February 12. On Sunday after a couple of experiments I suddenly had a rough prototype that let me interact with Slack. After adding WhatsApp and Telegram, I sent out an early version to some friends to get feedback. Over the next two and a half weeks I've built a Minimum Lovable Product around the services I use every day. On Sunday February 28 I was pretty happy with how Franz had turned out and thought that it would be great to get more feedback and testers from the experienced product people on Product Hunt. I approached my friend Thomas and asked if he would be interested in posting Franz on Product Hunt on Tuesday, that gave me enough time to build a simple website and polish Franz a bit. The Product Hunt launch Thomas posted Franz on Product Hunt at 10am CET. My expectations : about 250 upvotes and a couple hundred downloads + some tweets and emails. Reality: 1200 upvotes and over 100 comments within 24 hours. From soon on Franz was the most upvoted Product of the day. My website saw about 10,000 visits from Product Hunt alone and Franz saw his first 7,000 installs. What surprised me... How fast media outlets like TNW , t3n or Trending Topics picked up the story from Product Hunt. The amount of high quality VC's and Angels that contacted me - especially ones based in Europe. Users on Product Hunt did tests and found using Franz had a much smaller memory & CPU footprint than running the services separately. The insane amount of love letters and tweets I've received! &#x1f60d; Launch + 7 days A couple of national and international media outlets around the world published stories about Franz which allowed him to keep his growth steady. Monday 7th March, after the The Next Web launched its article about Franz , we reached more than 22,000 installs and 10,000 daily active users. &#x1f389; Franz in numbers Activity Most used services What's up next? There is so much happening right now and you can be part of it... Windows Beta Program Today, we're officially launching the Windows Beta Program. Everyone that wants to help us bring a great messaging experience to Windows is more than welcome to join the program.