As if you hadn't heard - and surely, you have heard - women earn less money than men. The oft-cited statistic that women earn 79 cents for every dollar men earn, based on median annual income, gets extra attention on Tuesday, Equal Pay Day, which marks how far into the year women on average have to work to catch up to men's earnings from the previous year. The perennial topic has come to the forefront thanks to Hillary Clinton 's attention to the issue and big tech companies publicly striving to close pay discrepancies. In addition, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission has proposed a new rule requiring employers to disclose pay by gender and race, and the Paycheck Fairness Act is proposing to amend the Equal Pay Act of 1963 to prohibit retaliation for wage disclosure and strengthen penalties for equal pay violations. A flurry of surveys and reports have come out on the topic in recent months to mark Equal Pay Day and Women's History Month, which was March. *A woman's median annual salary for full-time work is $10,800 less per year than a man's - a disparity that can add up to nearly $500,000 over the course of a career, according to a report from the Joint Economic Committee Democratic Staff. That hurts retirement income, with women aged 65 and older receiving 44 percent less annually than men. *Once you account for a person's age, education, years of experience, job title, employer and location, the pay gap between men and women shrinks from 24.1 percent to 5.4 percent, according to job review site Glassdoor, which examined 505,000 salaries that U.S. workers shared on its site. The gap varies widely depending on the job. *Women hold only a third of what are known as middle-skill jobs, a growing segment of the labor force that is considered a pathway out of poverty because the jobs require less than a bachelor's degree but are relatively well-paying at $35,000 to $102,000 per year, according to a study released last month by the Institute for Women's Policy Research and supported by JPMorgan Chase . *Women find their chances at promotion stall at different points of their careers, depending on the industry, according to a study by McKinsey. Some sectors have a hard time getting women in the door even for entry-level positions - including energy, technology and automotive and industrial manufacturing - often because of low graduation rates of women from feeder programs like engineering. aelejalderuiz@tribpub.com Twitter @alexiaer