Since we introduced Chromebox for meetings just over two years ago , many of you have enjoyed how our devices make meetings simple and easy. Companies such as Flipkart, PwC, Pinterest and the State of Wyoming are spending less time setting up their conference calls and more time collaborating as groups across regions in rooms of all sizes with Chromebox for meetings . Today we're making this easy collaboration available in smaller spaces and also improving remote device management. Say hello to the Acer Chromebase for meetings , an all-in-one secure video-conferencing device optimized for use in small meeting areas with up to two people. It's a secure, self updating, easy to manage unit that builds on Chrome and WebRTC innovations for sharper video, audio and screen sharing. Guest account support makes it simple to join a meeting even without a Google account: Just click a meeting link invitation and you're connected. Meet from more places, with more particpants So now, you can collaborate and meet over video from a dedicated device at home, your desk at work or a phone room. And since meeting in smaller spaces creates additional opportunity to work together across larger groups, we've also recently expanded the number of meeting participants to 25 people for Google Apps customers. After testing Chromebase for meetings in its offices, SignalFx sees the benefits. "Using Chromebase for meetings has been an amazing experience from the start! Right out of the box, it's easy to use and lets us collaborate quickly. The centralized management option allows for full control and oversight, and the price is amazing as well." - Heidi Olson, Executive Assistant / Office Manager, SignalFx Chromebase for meetings gets technology out of the way; just plug it in, connect it to your network and you're up and running securely. Chromebase for meetings is ideally suited for capturing audio and video in personal and shared workspaces: Large 24-inch adjustable touchscreen display Integrated, adjustable HD camera 4 microphones and 2 stereo speakers Improved management tools for meeting devices We're also happy to announce new features to our remote fleet management tools. Administrators can receive alert notifications and track health of their fleet of Chrome devices for meetings. They can remotely diagnose and troubleshoot audio, video quality and bandwidth problems. Administrators can also customize the interface using their own background images. Chromebase for meetings availability Chromebase for meetings is available at $799 from our partners in the US, Canada, UK, Ireland and Australia. The cost includes the first year's management and support fees. We'll soon after expand availability to additional countries where Chromebox for meetings is available today. You can learn more about Chromebase for meetings on our website . Sign up here to try two Chromebase for meetings devices at no cost for 30 days and receive a special promotion pricing of $549 per device with first year's management and support fee included.* *Subject to approval and limited to the first 1,000 signups