Overview Paragraphs is the new way of content creation! It allows you - Site Builders - to make things cleaner so that you can give more editing power to your end-users. Instead of putting all their content in one WYSIWYG body field including images and videos, end-users can now choose on-the-fly between pre-defined Paragraph Types independent from one another. Paragraph Types can be anything you want from a simple text block or image to a complex and configurable slideshow. Paragraphs module comes with a new "paragraphs" field type that works like Entity Reference's. Simply add a new paragraphs field on any Content Type you want and choose which Paragraph Types should be available to end-users. They can then add as many Paragraph items as you allowed them to and reorder them at will. Paragraphs module does not come with any default Paragraph Types but since they are basic Drupal Entities you can have complete control over what fields they should be composed of and what they should look like through the typical Drupal Manage Fields and Manage Display screens. You can also add custom option fields and do conditional coding in your CSS, JS and preprocess functions so that end-users can have more control over the look and feel of each item. This is way much cleaner and stable than adding inline CSS or classes inside the body field's source. So... what's it gonna be? Accordions, Tabs, Slideshows, Masonry galleries, Parallax backgrounds...? Think big! Some more examples: Add a block of text with an image left to it Add a slideshow between blocks of text Add a youtube embed between your text Add quotes between your content blocks Features This module has some overlapping functionality with field_collection, but this module has some advantages over field_collection. Different fields per paragraph bundle Using different paragraph bundles in a single paragraph field Displays per paragraph bundle Bundles are exportable with features. Entities, so: exportable field bases/instances, usable in Search API, usable in Views Related modules Demo sites Drupal 7 See this page for the Drupal 7 information and documentation. Requirements Known issues Node Clone does not work well with Paragraphs, see #2394313 Fixed in RC1 Drupal 8 A Drupal 8 version has been created. The Drupal 8 version currently has the same functionality as the Drupal 7 module. Version 8.x-1.0-rc4 is compatible with Drupal 8.0.0. See this page for the Drupal 8 information and documentation. Requirements Credits Paragraphs is developed and maintained by .VDMi/ ; Drupal shop in Rotterdam, The Netherlands Paragraphs logo by Nico Grienauer (Grienauer) .