Nominated for 1 Golden Globe. Another 8 wins & 31 nominations. See more awards " Storyline Three stories - one each from the past, present, and future - about men in pursuit of eternity with their love. A conquistador in Mayan country searches for the tree of life to free his captive queen; a medical researcher, working with various trees, looks for a cure that will save his dying wife; a space traveler, traveling with an aged tree encapsulated within a bubble, moves toward a dying star that's wrapped in a nebula; he seeks eternity with his love. The stories intersect and parallel; the quests fail and succeed. Taglines: What if you could love forever? Motion Picture Rating ( MPAA ) Rated PG-13 for some intense sequences of violent action, some sensuality and language | See all certifications " Details Release Date: 22 November 2006 (USA) Box Office Budget: $35,000,000 (estimated) Opening Weekend: $3,768,702 (USA) (22 November 2006) Gross: $10,139,254 (USA) (2 February 2007) Company Credits Technical Specs See full technical specs " Did You Know? Trivia Aronofsky approached Hugh Jackman backstage during his performance of The Boy From Oz. The next day, the actor agreed to star in the film. See more " Goofs The map used by the conquistadors to find the Tree of Life is erroneous. The priest says the three points which form an equilateral triangle on the map are Chichen Itza, Yaxchilan, and Tikal. However in reality, the three Mayan sites form an obtuse triangle, with Chichen Itza being the northern-most and the eastern-most point. See more " Quotes Crazy Credits The movie ends with a white out, which represents the Big Bang or creation of the Universe. Following that, the white areas behind the credits condense, which correlates with the condensation of matter and ultimate large sale structure of the universe. These devolve to black screen, the early "opaque" stage of the universe, when early particle were forming. From this, stars begin to form, one by one until the credits end with a universe full of stars and the story of our universe to the present, told behind the credits. See more " Connections References Ikiru (1952) See more " Frequently Asked Questions User Reviews Message Boards Recent Posts