So I thought to myself, "Genius dot com raised $50 million from Andreessen Horowitz didn't they? They must have lots of Angular-trained engineers. How didn't they catch that?!" Then I began to wonder, if Genius didn't use this one line of code that improves the performance of their website... who else? So I ⌘+T my way to , the official gallery of Angular projects. I clicked the first example I saw, Mercedes video channel. I inspected elements, and sure enough there was an ng-scope class. Take a look: I see it. You see it. Clear as day. I clicked another example, Maryland State Police. I did my Sherlock Holmes routine and inspected elements. I didn't see ng-scope. But then I opened console. And I typed: When you type that and press Enter the console will return some information about the version of angular that is in use on the page. Instead I got this: The page didn't use angular. The page isn't giving me any usable data, so I moved on. I clicked another example, groupme. Did they use the one line of code that would speed up their Angular? No. Another example, a startup called Flat. Did they use the one line of code that would speed up their Angular? They were like the Maryland State Police example, the page that the madewithangular website linked to didn't actually point to a page that was using angular. I clicked a nother example, Sprint. Did they use the line of code? No. I clicked another... no not really. At that point, I made a spreadsheet because I was now determined to check every example on the madewithangular homepage. That's 77 examples at the time I was on the site. Amazon, Magic Leap, GoPro, Lynda, AllRecipes.com. No. No. No. No. No. Anthropologie, Ford, YouTube Video Manager, Lego, MSNBC. No. No. No. No. No. Google Insights, Google Trends? No. No. Jeez Google's internal teams aren't using this one line of code? -My internal dialogue 20 of the 77 examples were like the Maryland State Police example, the link from madewithangular did not lead to a page using angular. So they're not relevant. How about the other 57 examples? How many of them used this one line of performance-enhancing code? 2. Those two websites? CNNGo and Greatist. That's 3 point 5 percent of websites inspected using one line of code that improves Angular performance. That means 96.5% of websites inspected do not use this one line of code that improves Angular performance. Oh I also inspected the MadeWithAngular website and Angularjs.org. Neither make use of this one line of code.