Couldn't make it to GCP NEXT last month? Lucky for you, recordings of over thirty sessions are up on YouTube to watch and learn from. But with so much quality content to watch, where do you start? Leaving aside the wildly popular Data Center 360 video that tours the Dalles, Oregon facility (one million views and counting), and must-see Day One keynotes and Day 2 keynotes , here are the five most popular GCP NEXT breakout sessions on YouTube. What's the secret behind Google's legendary uptime? Three words: site reliability engineers. In " How Google Does Planet-Scale Engineering for Planet-Scale Infrastructure " Google engineering director Melissa Bindle lays out the relationship between SREs and developer teams, and how they ensure uptime for Google.com and Google Cloud Platform users. Even if your organization isn't operating at quite planetary scale, lessons abound for anyone that cares about building and operating resilient environments. What exactly is machine learning, and what can it do for you? In " Build smart applications with your new superpower: cloud machine learning " Google Developer Advocate Julia Ferraioli walks through the range of Google's machine learning options, from TensorFlow , to Google Cloud Machine Learning to the Machine Learning APIs. She's also joined by David Zuckerman, head of developer experience at Wix.com, who describes how it used Google machine learning to mine customer images with the new Vision API. Cloud Platform users do the darndest things. In Analyzing 25 billion stock market events in an hour with NoOps on GCP, Fidelity Information Systems CTO Neil Palmer and developer Todd Ricker describe how they "ingest, process and analyze the entire U.S. options and equities market in 4 hours using Google Cloud Dataflow , Google Coud Pub/Sub and Google Cloud Bigtable. " That's 15 TB of data. On a daily basis. That it then makes available for market reanalysis to the regulators. Cloud Platform isn't all about crunching large amounts of data for ginormous financial services firms. It's also about democratizing access to Google's amazing capabilities to the world at large, wherever they may be. In " Building iOS Apps with Firebase ," Google Cloud Developer Advocate Sara Robinson walks users through how to develop a native iOS app using Firebase, a mobile back-end as a service, and then ties that app into Google Cloud Vision API to provide face and object recognition. Rounding out the list of most-watched breakout sessions is Painless container management with GKE & Kubernetes . Brendan Burns, Google's lead engineer on the Kubernetes project, provides context and backstory; Rich Steenberg, principal engineer at WePay, a Kubernetes shop, describes how they're using Kubernetes today; and Tim Hockin, a Google software engineer, describes what's new in Kubernetes 1.2, and what's on tap. Did your favorite session not make the list? Share it in the comments so the rest of the world can benefit from what you learned.