Any skilled presenter knows that an interactive presentation is often an effective presentation. Starting today, you can better engage your audience by allowing them to submit questions and vote on them during Google Slides presentations. To see the feature in action, check out this video in which Google Science Fair winner Shree Bose fields questions from a group of 200 middle school students. A few things to note: You can only use Slides Q&A if you have edit or comment access to that Slides presentation. By default, any user in your domain can submit a question. If your organization permits external sharing, you can allow external users to submit questions as well. For more information on how to accept, submit, and view audience questions in Google Slides, check out the Help Center . Bonus! Allowing your audience to ask questions isn't the only way we're improving the presentation experience on Slides today. We're also making the following possible: Use your mouse as a laser pointer in Slides on the web. Just choose the laser pointer option from the toolbar and move your mouse, and a red laser-like dot will appear in the same place on screen, helping your audience know where to look and when. In the Slides iOS app, present to a new Hangout or to a Hangout selected from a meeting on your Google Calendar. For more information, check out the Help Center . Launch Details Release track: Launching to both Rapid release and Scheduled release: All mobile features All audience features on mobile and desktop Launching to Rapid release, with Scheduled release coming in two weeks: Ability for a presenter to enable Q&A on desktop Rollout pace: Gradual rollout (potentially longer than 3 days for feature visibility) Action: Change management suggested/FYI More Information Note: all launches are applicable to all Google Apps editions unless otherwise noted Help Center: Ask and present audience questions Help Center: Present slides Google for Work Blog: Talk with your audience - not at them - with Slides Q&A Launch release calendar Launch detail categories Get these product update alerts by email Subscribe to the RSS feed of these updates