Nominated for 3 Oscars. Another 28 wins & 51 nominations. See more awards " Storyline 24 hours in L.A.; it's raining cats and dogs. Two parallel and intercut stories dramatize men about to die: both are estranged from a grown child, both want to make contact, and neither child wants anything to do with dad. Earl Partridge's son is a charismatic misogynist; Jimmy Gator's daughter is a cokehead and waif. A mild and caring nurse intercedes for Earl, reaching the son; a prayerful and upright beat cop meets the daughter, is attracted to her, and leads her toward a new calm. Meanwhile, guilt consumes Earl's young wife, while two whiz kids, one grown and a loser and the other young and pressured, face their situations. The weather, too, is quirky. Taglines: Things fall down. People look up. And when it rains, it pours. Details Release Date: 7 January 2000 (USA) Box Office Budget: $37,000,000 (estimated) Opening Weekend: $193,604 (USA) (17 December 1999) Gross: $22,450,975 (USA) (12 May 2000) Company Credits Technical Specs See full technical specs " Did You Know? Trivia During the end credits of "What Do Kids Know?", the final production note is that the program was a Partridge Production, referring to Earl Partridge. The only other reference to Earl as a television producer comes from his son Frank Mackey during his interview with Gwenovier. When asked about his parents line of work, Frank responds that his father worked in television and that his mother was a librarian. See more " Goofs Water seen through restaurant window behind Claudia, after rainstorm stops. Apparently a waterfall in the courtyard. See more " Quotes [first lines] : In the New York Herald, November 26, year 1911, there is an account of the hanging of three men. They died for the murder of Sir Edmund William Godfrey; Husband, Father, Pharmacist and all around gentle-man resident of: Greenberry Hill, London. He was murdered by three vagrants whose motive was simple robbery. They were identified as: Joseph Green, Stanley Berry, and Daniel Hill. Green, Berry, Hill. And I Would Like To Think This was Only A Matter Of Chance. As reported in the Reno... See more " Crazy Credits Pedestrian #2 is incorrectly spelled Pedistrian #2. See more " Connections References Homicide (1991) See more " Soundtracks Also Sprach Zarathustra Written by Richard Strauss Performed by Herbert von Karajan & Wiener Philharmoniker (as The Vienna Philharmonic) Courtesy of Decca Records Company Limited See more " Frequently Asked Questions User Reviews Message Boards Recent Posts