Tetra Pak has acquired Laude, which designs, develops and manufactures plastic moulds for hard and semi-hard cheese. The deal was completed last week (March 31) and the company will be a part of Tetra Pak Cheese and Powder Systems division. Laude to expand globally Tim High, executive VP, Processing Systems, Tetra Pak, told Dairy Reporter, following the acquisition it will offer even more cheese lines and extend the availability of Laude products in the global market. He said Tetra Pak today has a number of technology for cheese manufacturing - from milk preparation to final cheese products, including whey treatment. " We aim to have a portfolio of products and services that meet the needs of every step in cheese manufacturing and covering a wide variety of cheese types ," he added. " Laude sells products globally but the focus has been in Europe. With Tetra Pak's business presence in more than 170 countries, Laude products can now reach customers globally ." Cheese draining and forming equipment Laude will continue to focus on cheese mould, as well as designing and producing specialized plastic components used in cheese draining and forming equipment. High said its products and services are complementary to its existing business, with no overlap in product portfolio or manufacturing. " Laude is a leader in moulds for hard and semi-hard cheese, and we see growth opportunities in all markets where such cheese are produced ," he said. Laude, based in Ter Apel, The Netherlands, has 38 employees, and will remain in its current location under the leadership of its managing director, Auke Rienks and his existing team. He said thanks to the acquisition the company 'sees an exciting opportunity for international growth' through Tetra Pak, particularly outside of Europe, where its focus has been in the past. " The driving force behind the acquisition is to complement Tetra Pak's portfolio of cheese production equipment and to expand our resources and capabilities to serve our customers ," added Rienks.