Thank you Docker community for your amazing collaborations last month! In March, the community organized over 125 Docker Birthday #3 local trainings and celebrations . This month, you can still catch a few more birthday events and lots of other awesome Docker events! From webinars to workshops, meetups to conference talks, here is our list of Docker events coming up in April. Official Docker Training Courses View the full schedule of instructor led training courses here! Introduction to Docker This is a two-day, on-site or classroom-based training course which introduces you to the Docker platform and takes you through installing, integrating, and running it in your working environment. By the end of the course, you will be familiar with the "why" of Docker. You will also be able to perform the basic tasks needed to get started with Docker and integrate it into your working environment. April 14-15: Introduction to Docker with Antelops Consulting - Madrid, Spain April 28-29: Introduction to Docker with Treeptik - Aix en Provence, France Docker Administration and Operations This two day course is designed to help new and experienced systems administrators learn to use Docker to control the Docker daemon, security, Docker Machine, Swarm, and Compose. April 19-20: Administration and Operations with Vizuri - Boston, MA April 25-29: Docker Administration and Operations with Antelops Consulting - Madrid, Spain Advanced Docker Operations This two day course is designed to help new and experienced systems administrators learn to use Docker to control the Docker daemon, security, Docker Machine, Swarm, and Compose. April 19-20: Advanced Docker Operations with Praqma - Copenhagen, Denmark Online Apr 5th: Docker Datacenter Demo During this live presentation you will receive an overview of Docker Datacenter, and will see a demo of the solution which includes Universal Control Plane + Docker Trusted Registry. Apr 6th: Hump Day Demos - Docker Content Trust In this demo you will learn about Docker Content Trust, our image signing tool, and how it integrates with Docker Datacenter. Then you will see a live demo of the tool. Apr 7th: Enabling Splunk's House of Demos with Docker Isolation and portability properties of a Docker containers have the potential for broader use outside of software development. Splunk wanted to solve for the SE or partner that has to give an awesome Splunk demo in a place with no internet connectivity. With Docker Datacenter and Toolbox, they have been able to re-boot their House of Demos into a library of Docker images/containers that an SE can get access to just by logging in. These pre-packaged demos then run offline on Toolbox. Apr 12th: How FairFly Uses Docker Cloud In this live presentation, Ami Goldenberg, co-founder and CEO of FairFly, the company that helps you rebook your flight for a better price, shares how the company uses Docker Cloud to help them deliver world-class services to their customers. North & South America Apr 1st: Docker Meetup at GE Digital - San Ramon, CA Join us for our first East Bay Docker Meetup with speakers from GE Digital, Docker, and Mesos. "Containers for the Industrial Internet" by Marc-Thomas Schmidt, "Securing your Containers" by David Lawrence, engineer from Docker, "Container Orchestration with Mesos" by Greg Mann. Apr 5th: Docker 101 by Gerald Aden - Beaverton, OR Come find out what all the buzz is about with Docker and containers in general! Apr 5th: April Meetup Featuring Docker and Horizon - Mountain View, CA Happy Spring everyone We have a few really great talks for our meetup this month and hope you're able to join us! Talk 1: Nathan LeClaire from Docker - details coming soon. Talk 2: Mike Seid - Founder/CTO of Naytev. Apr 5th: Intro to webpack by Lenny Sirivong, Intro to Docker by Armand Zerilli - Ithaca, NY Join us for two hot topics that we've been looking forward to talking about for a while now. This is the first time we've had talks about webpack or docker, so both will be introductory. See you there! Apr 5th: Node Night - Mountain View, CA At this meetup, Tony and the Atomiq team will be officially launching a new open source project for generating microservices for Node.js with first class ES6 and async/await support, as well as support for building, running, and debugging microservices in Docker containers. We'll show you how to generate new projects and easily create routes using ES6 classes. Apr 6th: Deploying a "Hello, World!" Application in AWS - San Francisco, CA Transcoder, you wrote your code, now you want to take it into production. Guest presenter, Faye Salwin, will show you how you can leverage Docker to take the stress out of putting your code into production. Topics include: Good Git Practice, Mechanics of Docker, Deploying our "Hello, World!" Application in AWS, Automating Deployments in AWS. Apr 6th: De Integración Continua a Entrega Continua con Docker y GoCD - Medellín, Colombia ¿Tienes montado un servidor de integración continua pero sólo te sirve para compilar y tal vez ejecutar pruebas unitarias cada X tiempo? ¿Pasar a producción es una tortura? En esta charla Sebastián Vélez nos mostrará cómo pasar de una estrategia de Integración Continua a una de Entrega Continua con GoCD ( y Docker ( El objetivo final es que pasar a producción sea tan fácil como apretar un botón. Apr 6th: Getting Started with Docker - Franklin, TN Lee Jones will be presenting Docker, a tool that can provide exciting new development, testing, and deployment capabilities for individuals and teams. This talk will provide an introduction to Docker with a focus on development and testing use cases. Apr 7th: Using Docker and Elastic Beanstalk in Production - Toronto, ON, Canada For this meetup, N49 will share how they are making the move from monolithic architecture to Service Oriented architecture, lessons learned and a walk through of how they are leveraging Docker, Elastic Beanstalk, API-Gateway, and swagger in Production. They will also share why they decided to move piece by piece and some lessons learned using docker in production. Apr 7th: Docker Meetup at Deis - Boulder, CO Join us for two great talks which will cover getting set up & getting serious with Docker. Talk 1: Docker in development, you have to start somewhere, Talk 2: Deis Workflow for Docker in Production. Apr 7th: Docker Meetup at Docker HQ - San Francisco, CA Please join us for a great meetup event tonight with speakers: Aditya and Arun Gupta, and David Lawrence! 6:00pm - 6:15pm: Arrival, Food and Beverages, 6:15pm - 7:00pm: Mobycraft - Docker in 8-bit, Arun and Aditya Gupta, 7:00pm - 7:45pm: Securing your Containers, David Lawrence, 7:45pm - 8:00pm: Wrap-up. Apr 7th: NumPy and Docker - Knoxville, TN For our April meeting, we'll have a presentation about using NumPy for scientific computing in Python by Gavin Wiggins. You can learn more about NumPy at numpy.org. We'll also have an overview on using Docker to distribute applications by Mike Hagedorn. Visit the Docker website at docker.com for more information about the platform. And don't forget to attend the meeting to get your free swag from Continuum Analytics, the makers of Anaconda. Apr 9th: Next Gen Angular2 + Ionic2 Stack, React Native IDEs, Easy Docker Deployment - Online This is an online meetup hosted by Modern Web. At this Modern Web event, we'll feature 3 cool new companies with tools focused on enhancing developer happiness by abstracting away repetitive tasks. Topic: Building & Testing micro-services app using Docker and Node.js. In this session we will go over the fundamental of Docker & Docker compose and build our first micro-services application. The session will include a live demo of Docker technology, Node.js and Codefresh platform. Apr 12th: Using Docker containers to run your automated test scripts - Waltham, MA I will enter more information here as the demo gets closer to completion. But generally I plan to show how we can leverage the power of Docker containers to spin up environments to run automated test scripts in them. Apr 13th: Docker Meetup at Hacker Dojo - Mountain View, CA Speaker: Donglue Chen (Docker). Title: Docker clustering improvement since Docker 1.10. Speaker: Ben Bernstein (Twistlock). Title: Docker, AuthZ, AuthN plugins Apr 14th: A guided tour of using Docker in your PHP web application - Toronto, Canada I'd be happy to share my experience with adapting a Zend/Angular web app to use Docker in production, pipeline and dev environments. We can work through the code to make it happen and talk about the benefits, gotchas, etc. General talk outline would be: The basic technologies that underpin software containers, What Docker does on top of that, Good use cases for Docker, Dockerfiles and Docker-compose files, Example of a PHP simple application using Docker. Apr 15th: Intro to Docker Compose 2 - Online In this session we will introduce & demo docker-compose 2. The session will run for 30 minutes including live demo and 10 minutes for Q&A. Apr 15th: Container Camp - San Francisco, CA This year at Container Camp Docker is sponsoring the Diversity Scholarship! The offering is for two full scholarships to Container Camp San Francisco to those from underrepresented backgrounds. The scholarships will include travel and accommodation costs and passes to the conference. Apr 19th: Container Security Summit - Palo Alto, CA Our purpose in organizing the summit is to hold a vendor-neutral, research-oriented, open discussion, bringing together thought leaders, practitioners, and solution providers to: a) define current container security challenges; b) share best practices and experiences securing containerized environments, and; c) identify opportunities for security innovations with containers Apr 20th: Docker Meetup at Dynatrace - San Mateo, CA When workspaces are universal, developers and users can interact in-the-moment. On-demand developer workspaces improve workflow and automate developer bootstrapping to supercharge the agile ethos. Codenvy makes tooling, workspaces and environments consistent across teams. We have Docker to thank for that. We use Docker, Docker Machine, and Docker Swarm to generate universal workspaces that are collaborative, constraint-free, and distributed. In this session, we'll introduce open source Eclipse Che and how it uses Docker and Docker Machine to make workspaces universal. Apr 20th: Build-as-code within Jenkins Pipeline & Docker - Washington, D.C. Jenkins is evolving from CI to CD platform. Now with Jenkins pipeline users can deploy code from Dev to Prod within a single job. Pipeline also provides deep integration with Docker and other cloud based platform. Come join us to talk about Jenkins pipeline and its future. Apr 24th: Docker and Cloud Servers - Concord, CA We are going to talk about Docker and software containers. Emphasis will be on Linux and open source technologies. Apr 25th: Redis Night - Data Structures and Deploy w/Docker - Atlanta, GA Talk #1: Redis Functions and Data Structures - Dave Nielsen, Developer Advocate, Redis Labs. Talk #2: Deploy Redis using Docker - John Willis, Partnerships, Docker. Apr 26th: Docker Meetup at NextGear Capital - Indianapolis, IN A Comprehensive Approach to Monitoring Docker - Christian Beedgen (Sumologic) I will talk about a comprehensive approach to monitoring Docker, based on this blog: . I will discuss how we implemented this (it is now an actual working source in our Collector framework) and what pros and cons we discovered. I will also address how this could be potentially improved in the future in Docker by introducing a firehose API for monitoring vendors. Europe Apr 2nd: Docker Birthday #3 Barcelona - Barcelona, Spain Join us in celebrating the Docker Project's 3rd birthday! To warmly welcome newcomers into our Docker community, we will provide Docker training to show them how they can build, ship, and run a distributed application with ease thanks to the Docker platform. Are you an advanced user? We strongly encourage Docker users of all skill levels to attend! We need a network of mentors who understand the Docker platform to answer any questions that newcomers may have. Apr 4th: Docker Meetup at The Castle "Slottet" Slottsbacken - Stockholm, Sweden We are proud to having J érôme Petazzoni himself visiting Stockholm. Jérôme will talk about and demo the various parts and aspects of the Docker platform in his talk "Keeping up with the Docker Platform." Join us in exploring the Docker platform! RSVP Apr 4th: Learn about Docker Swarm with Golang Paris - Paris, France A talk about Docker Swarm by Francis Bouvier, co-fondateur de Blueboard.it Apr 6th: Docker Meetup at Barcelona Activa - Barcelona, Spain Join us for the 18th Docker Barcelona Meetup. Our topic of the day is Docker Swarm, a Docker-native clustering system to manage containers at scale. Scaling and Clustering with Docker Swarm. (Speakers: Viktor Farcic from CloudBees & Dimitris Kapanidis from Harbur) In this talk we'll explain how to move from single-node containers infrastructure to multi-host environments, using Docker Swarm as a clustering system on-top of Docker Engine. Apr 6th: Introduction to Docker and Docker Compose - London, United Kingdom Docker is gaining popularity and the knowledge about it started to be the most desirable skill on the market. If so far you didn't have chance to create any Docker container or write Dockerfile, this session is for you. We will cover all basic functions of Docker and Docker Compose. You will learn how to create your first container and prepare images for your application. Apr 7th: Docker Lab with Dev_Ops_Tnf - Tenerife, Spain Apr 7th: Using Docker to quickly deploy applications on Raspberry Pi - Sevilla, Spain Raspberry Pi is an excellent platform for connecting devices to the cloud. However, the deployment of applications can be very laborious due to the units must have the operating system installed. Using Linux containers with Docker, we can develop and test applications locally, in order to then rapidly deploy our Raspberry Pi and / or share with the community without compromising the integrity of the operating system. We will illustrate these concepts by creating a Docker container that will allow us to read data from a temperature sensor connected to GPIO of Raspberry. Apr 7th: Docker Party - Intro and Best Practices for Containers - Jena, Germany At the first meeting will talk all about the virtualization of applications with containers to celebrate Docker's third year. Congratulations! Apr 12th: Meet Docker and akera.io - Cluj-Napoca, Romania We will share some of our experience with docker, node.js and give a quick intro on akera.io. This should be a regular two hours event, those that would like to play with akera.io can bring their laptops and hopefully we will have some nativescript demo to end the day. Apr 12th: Kiratech @ Vinitaly 2016 - Verona, Italy DevOps Day. The new paradigm of application delivery based on containers and micro service. Monitoring Big Data Analytics. Automation, continuous integration and delivery. DevOps philosophy put into practice. 10:20 to 10:40 Docker Datacenter - Docker Inc. Apr 13th: Docker Meetup at Grünhof - Freiburg, Germany Join us for our next meetup event! Apr 13th: Raising the Bar: Docker native clustering with Swarm - Tel Aviv-Yafo, Israel Drink beer and enjoy a great lecture by Haggai Zagury about: From development workstation(s) to * || anywhere (Docker makes it platform agnostic considering docker-machine drivers for aws, digitalocean etc etc ). Replacing "packaging" methodology with "shipping" methodology by transforming traditional deliverables such as war / jar / rpm etc to containers from development to staging & production. - discuss docker files and gradle & maven impl. Outline the variations between the different environments and the key components/enablers of the solution. Apr 13th: Bluemix and Docker containers - Paris, France Feature of Docker: Virtualization to containerization. How to leverage the power of Docker to deploy a container on Bluemix. Apr 14th: Docker Birthday #3 Cluj-Napoca - Cluj-Napoca, Romania Join us in celebrating the Docker Project's 3rd birthday! To warmly welcome newcomers into our Docker community, we will provide Docker training to show them how they can build, ship, and run a distributed application with ease thanks to the Docker platform. Are you an advanced user? We strongly encourage Docker users of all skill levels to attend! We need a network of mentors who understand the Docker platform to answer any questions that newcomers may have. Apr 14th: Docker Meetup at buschmais GbR - Dresden, Germany Join us for our next meetup with Sebastian Schrader from IBM. More details on the event page. RSVP Apr 14th: Docker Meetup at Hotel San Marco - Verona, Italy During this meeting we will discover, learn and discuss the latest news and developments of container technology. Soon we will publish the detailed agenda. Apr 14th: Docker Meetup in Amsterdam - Amsterdam, Netherlands Apr 20th: Women Who Go Workshop: Intro to Docker & containers - Berlin, Germany Introduction to Docker and containers. This hands-on tutorial will give you an opportunity to dive in, and see Docker in action. You will learn about Docker basic concepts, how to run containers, create your own images, interact with the "Docker Hub", connect multiple containers together to form complex applications, and manage persistent storage for containers. It is divided in two parts, each spanning 4 hours. Apr 19th - 21st: DevOpsDays London - London, United Kingdom We're excited to be at DevOpsDays again this year in London! Come meet the team at Table G7. Our own Docker London meetup organizer, Benjamin Wootton , will also be speaking. Apr 19th: Special Security Event at IBM with Adrian Mouat - Zurich, Switzerland Talk: Microservice Security: how to use Docker safely in Production Adrian Mouat , Chief Scientist at Container Solutions and the author of the O'Reilly book "Using Docker," will give you his insights on how Docker is used as basis of all modern microservice architectures. Apr 21st: Women Who Go Workshop: Intro to Docker & containers (Part 2) - Berlin, Germany Introduction to Docker and containers (Part 2). This hands-on tutorial will give you an opportunity to dive in, and see Docker in action. You will learn about Docker basic concepts, how to run containers, create your own images, interact with the "Docker Hub", connect multiple containers together to form complex applications, and manage persistent storage for containers. It is divided in two parts, each spanning 4 hours. Apr 21st: Using Docker with Cloud Foundry - London, United Kingdom Docker Support is now live with Pivotal Cloud Foundry 1.6, what does this mean? This will be a mixture of talks and live hands-on demo with the usual Pizza and Drinks in between! Apr 21st: Docker Meetup at Ecole 42 - Paris, France Docker Meetup #31 with special guest Diogo Mónica , Security Lead at Docker. Apr 22nd: dotSecurity Conference - Paris, France Diogo Mónica , Security Lead at Docker will be speaking. Apr 26th - 29th: Craft 2016 - Budapest, Hungary At Craft this year, we're excited to say we have an awesome lineup of speakers! We'll have Amir Chaudhry , Diogo Mónica on "Securing Software Distribution using Notary," Jérôme Petazzoni on "Patterns to deploy and scale containerized applications in production with Docker Swarm" plus a workshop on Wednesday, 27th of April on "Advanced Docker concepts and container orchestration," and Jessie Frazelle on "Application Sandboxes vs. Containers." Don't forget the Docker Budapest meetup featuring Jérôme Petazzoni on "Keeping up with the Docker Platform" slated for 27th of April. Apr 26th: Docker Meetup at Die Mobiliar - Bern, Switzerland We are happy to announce the 7th Docker Switzerland meetup. This time we are going to Bern! The kind folks from Die Mobiliar have offered to host and sponsor the meetup. This particular meetup will be focussing on the topic of "Docker in production." RSVP Apr 26th: Docker Meetup at istic - Rennes, France Apr 26th: Docker Meetup at Das Labor Bochum - Bochum, Germany Join our next meetup event! Apr 27th: Refactoring an ASP.NET/IIS monolith to composable polyglot Docker-hosted mini-services at JAX DevOps Conference - London, UK Presented by Mark Rendle , Founder, CEO and Chief Developer of CloudLens. Apr 27th: Docker Meetup in Budapest - Budapest, Hungary Save the date as Docker black belt master: Jérôme Petazzoni himself will be in town! Apr 28th: Docker Meetup at Startplatz - Köln, Germany We have already secured our first talk about Docker Security (details following soon) and are looking for a second speaker currently. Feel free to suggest a speaker or your own talk. Apr 28th: Increasing Code Quality with Docker at JAX DevOps Conference - London, UK Presented by Laura Frank , Software Engineer, Codeship. Testing software is necessary, no matter the size or status of your company. Introducing Docker to your development workflow can help you write and run your testing frameworks more efficiently, so that you can always deliver your best product to your customers and there are no excuses for not writing tests anymore. You'll walk away from this talk with practical advice for using Docker to run your test frameworks more efficiently, as well as some solid knowledge of software testing principles. Asia Apr 2nd: Getting Started with Containers on Docker platform - Bangalore, India Free workshop to help people get started with the Docker Basics. Apr 2nd: Docker Birthday #3 Pune - Pune, India Join us in celebrating the Docker Project's 3rd birthday! To warmly welcome newcomers into our Docker community, we will provide Docker training to show them how they can build, ship, and run a distributed application with ease thanks to the Docker platform. Are you an advanced user? We strongly encourage Docker users of all skill levels to attend! We need a network of mentors who understand the Docker platform to answer any questions that newcomers may have. Apr 4th: Docker Birthday #3 Jakarta - Jakarta, Indonesia Join us in celebrating the Docker Project's 3rd birthday! To warmly welcome newcomers into our Docker community, we will provide Docker training to show them how they can build, ship, and run a distributed application with ease thanks to the Docker platform. Are you an advanced user? We strongly encourage Docker users of all skill levels to attend! We need a network of mentors who understand the Docker platform to answer any questions that newcomers may have. Apr 9th: Docker Meetup at Hackanoi Lab - Ha Noi, Vietnam Talk #1: Microservices with Docker Swarm and Consul - Speaker: Nguyen Sy Thanh Son , Web Team Leader - Sigma IT Solutions - Content: Just talking about Microservices and Tools (Docker Swarm, Consul ..) used to build a scalable system. And we will discuss when we should and what we need to have to build a microservices system Talk #2: Continuous Delivery with Docker - the-homeless-way - Speaker: Chu Duc Minh , Cloud Architect - VCCorp - Content: Introduction to Continuous Delivery (CD) and how to implement CD with Docker when you have no money, no server. RSVP Apr 14th: Docker Meetup at Lazada Vietnam - Thanh Pho Ho Chi Minh, Vietnam Join us for our next event. Talks include Building Minimal Images by Ivan Kirichenko . Apr 23rd: Docker Meetup at Gemini Systems - Coimbatore, India Welcome note and Members Introduction (regular routine). Docker Compose - Running your application via compose. Hands on experience with docker-compose . Q & A / Networking. Oceania Apr 19th: Docker Meetup at REA Group - Melbourne, Australia Talk Title: Docker Compose Presenter: Clem Labbe (REA Group) - Using Docker Compose to provide a flexible environment for development, test, and continuous integration. Apr 28th: Docker Meetup at Red Hat Brisbane - Brisbane, Australia The Docker engine has a number of ways you can extend its behavior through plugins. Right now, you can make Volume plugins, Network plugins and Authorization plugins - see We'll talk about some of the plugins that have been written, show some demos, and talk about how we might solve your Docker use cases using the Plugins API. Africa Apr 9th: Docker Birthday #3 Buea - Buea, Cameroon Join us in celebrating the Docker Project's 3rd birthday! To warmly welcome newcomers into our Docker community, we will provide Docker training to show them how they can build, ship, and run a distributed application with ease thanks to the Docker platform. Are you an advanced user? We strongly encourage Docker users of all skill levels to attend! We need a network of mentors who understand the Docker platform to answer any questions that newcomers may have. Learn More about Docker