Storyline Life is hard in a Welsh mining town and no less so for the Morgan family. Seen through the eyes of the family's youngest, Huw, we learn of the family's trials and tribulations. Family patriarch Gwilym and his older sons work in the mines, dangerous and unhealthy as it is. Gwilym has greater hopes for his youngest son, but Huw has his own ideas on how to honor his father. Daughter Angharad is the most beautiful girl in the valley and is very much in love with Mr. Gruffydd, who isn't sure he can provide her the life she deserves. Times are hard and good men find themselves out of work and exploited by unseen mine owners. Written by garykmcd Taglines: Millions Have Read This Great Novel... Millions more will see an even greater picture! Details Release Date: 9 April 1942 (Australia) Also Known As: Richard Llewellyn's How Green Was My Valley Box Office Budget: $1,250,000 (estimated) Company Credits Technical Specs Sound Mix: Mono (Western Electric Mirrophonic Recording) See full technical specs " Did You Know? Trivia The author of the novel, Richard Llewellyn had claimed to have based the book on his own knowledge of the Gilfach Goch area, but this was proven false, as Llewellyn was English-born and spent little time in Wales. As it turned out, he had actually gathered his facts from conversations with local mining families. See more " Goofs Although a good effort is putting into making the locations look Welsh, the Southern California mountains sometimes seen in the background are too high for South Wales. See more " Quotes Mr. Gruffydd : I know why you have come - I have seen it in your faces Sunday after Sunday as I've stood here before you. Fear has brought you here. Horrible, superstitious fear. Fear of divine retribution a bolt of fire from the skies. The vengeance of the Lord and the justice of God. But you have forgotten the love of Jesus. You disregard His sacrifice. Death, fear, flames, horror and black clothes. Hold your meeting then, but know if you do this in the name of God and in the house of God, you blaspheme ... See more " Connections Referenced in House M.D.: Private Lives (2010) See more " Soundtracks I Saw a Tiny Streamlet (uncredited) Music by Owain Alaw (aka John Owen) See more " User Reviews Message Boards Recent Posts