Won 1 Oscar. Another 30 wins & 97 nominations. See more awards " Storyline Some time after the Civil War, a stagecoach hurtles through the wintry Wyoming landscape. Bounty hunter John Ruth and his fugitive captive Daisy Domergue race towards the town of Red Rock, where Ruth will bring Daisy to justice. Along the road, they encounter Major Marquis Warren (an infamous bounty hunter) and Chris Mannix (a man who claims to be Red Rock's new sheriff). Lost in a blizzard, the bunch seeks refuge at Minnie's Haberdashery. When they arrive they are greeted by unfamiliar faces: Bob, who claims to be taking care of the place while Minnie is gone; Oswaldo Mobray, the hangman of Red Rock; Joe Gage, a cow puncher; and confederate general Sanford Smithers. As the storm overtakes the mountainside, the eight travelers come to learn that they might not make it to Red Rock after all... Written by Jordan Crighton Taglines: The bounty hunter. The Hangman. The Confederate. The Sheriff. The Mexican. The little man. The cow puncher. The prisoner. Motion Picture Rating ( MPAA ) Rated R for strong bloody violence, a scene of violent sexual content, language and some graphic nudity | See all certifications " Details Release Date: 30 December 2015 (USA) Also Known As: The H8ful Eight Box Office Budget: $62,000,000 (estimated) Opening Weekend: $4,610,676 (USA) (25 December 2015) Gross: $54,116,191 (USA) (22 April 2016) Company Credits Technical Specs Runtime: (digital) | (70 mm) See full technical specs " Did You Know? Trivia Early test screenings had a runtime of over 3 hours and included an intermission. See more " Goofs The dollar amounts of the bounties are frequently mentioned ($8,000, $10,000). Assuming the time-frame of the story is probably in the 1870s or 1880s, those amounts would be more than $200,000 today. See more " Quotes [first lines] Major Marquis Warren : [looks up coolly as a stagecoach pulled by horses approaches] Got room for one more? See more " Crazy Credits The roadshow version of the film opens with a faux-vintage Weinstein Company logo, in flat white-on-blue with a very 70s font along with a "Cinerama" logo. The first few credits appear in the same font as the logo's before switching to Tarantino's usual Friz Quadrata. The standard release opens with only the normal Weinstein Company logo before going directly into the sweeping Panavision shots. See more " Soundtracks Jim Jones At Botany Bay Traditional Performed by Jennifer Jason Leigh See more " User Reviews Message Boards Recent Posts