Posted on: No, there is no typo in the title. :) Yes, you did read it correctly. :) And, yes, it's a great time to be at Red Hat. Today, Red Hat announced the availability of a no-cost Red Hat Enterprise Linux developer subscription, available as part of the Red Hat Developer Program . Offered as a self-supported, development-only subscription, the Red Hat Enterprise Linux Developer Suite provides you with a more stable development platform for building enterprise applications - across cloud, physical, virtual, and container-centric infrastructures. Red Hat SVP Craig Muzilla added some good points in his blog , too. If you're building enterprise applications, this is a great complement to what we've already been doing with the Red Hat JBoss Middleware products - all are now available as no-cost developer subscriptions via the Red Hat Developer Program. With this subscription, we're giving developers the chance to: write your code on the same environment as test and production systems, code at home with the same Red Hat Enterprise Linux that you use at work, containerize your apps, and a lot more. What you get The no-cost Red Hat Enterprise Linux Developer Suite gets you: Red Hat Enterprise Linux Server - An application development entitlement to the world's leading enterprise Linux platform. Development tools with long-term support - Each major Red Hat Enterprise Linux release is supported for 10 years, so a broad set of included "base" development tools that are also supported for that length of time; examples include GCC, Python, PHP, Ruby, Java, etc. Development tools with frequent updates - We produce annual updates of important development components such as programming languages (GCC, Python, Node.js, etc.), open source databases (PostgreSQL, MongoDB, etc), web servers (Apache httpd, Nginx, etc.), and other development tools (Eclipse, Git, etc.); these are packaged via Red Hat Software Collections and Red Hat Developer Toolset. Containers, microservices, and cloud. Oh my. If you're working on, or starting to look at, Linux containers (aka Docker) for cloud-native applications and/or microservices, this new offering means you now have access to the Red Hat Container Development Kit (CDK) , a collection of container development tools and resources. The CDK uses a different install process that utilizes Vagrant (and Vagrant boxes), so users will have access to Red Hat Enterprise Linux Server as well as a local desktop instance of OpenShift Enterprise 3 for development use. Go get it! Download this no-cost RHEL Developer Suite subscription and give it a go. Click download, register and agree to terms, click again. It's quite simple. If you want to install it as a guest on your local system, we have some handy Getting Started guides to walk you through it - for bare metal or a hypervisor on Windows, MacOS, or another Linux. Join Red Hat Developers , a developer program for you to learn, share, and code faster - and get access to Red Hat software for your development. The developer program and software are both free!