Wait, what! Generating high-quality images based on completely random neural networks? That's the unreasonable effectiveness of deep representations... (This research project was possible thanks to the nucl.ai Conference [1].) Synthesizing high-quality images with deep learning currently relies on neural networks trained extensively for classification on millions of images. It takes days! Most neural networks used for classification are very big too, which makes the generative algorithms very slow. It's a huge problem for adoption since it takes a lot of resources to train these models, so scaling quality up and down is difficult. While trying to train a more efficient neural network for Neural Doodle using current best practices, I stumbled on a discovery... I could use completely random neural networks as feature detectors and still get compelling results! Think of this as a form of Neural Patches , which is basically brute force nearest neighbor matching of 3×3 patterns - but using the neural network's post-activation outputs ( conv3_1 and conv4_1 ) rather than doing operations in image space. Code is available in the GitHub repository for Neural Doodle! WARNING: This research was done in less than 24h. I'm writing this blog post already because I Tweeted about early results and everyone is excited - so I can't keep this contained ;-) If you'd like to collaborate on further research and writing a full paper, let me know! Experiment Setup The main focus of this report is on texture generation from random noise, because it's the easiest problem in image synthesis. It only involves one loss component so it's nice and simple too! 48 units, 3x3 shape # conv1_1 48 units, 3x3 shape # conv1_2 80 units, 2x2 shape, stride 2x2 # conv2_1 80 units, 3x3 shape # conv2_2 112 units, 2x2 shape, stride 2x2 # conv3_1 112 units, 3x3 shape # conv3_2 112 units, 3x3 shape # conv3_3 176 units, 2x2 shape, stride 2x2 # conv4_1 176 units, 3x3 shape # conv4_2 176 units, 3x3 shape # conv4_3 For all the other parameters, they are as follows: there were a total of four scales processed using --phases=4 , each with ten optimization steps as --iterations=10 . Style weight was set to hundred, higher than usual with --style-weight=100.0 and the patch variety was set to a small amount for visual fidelity --variety=0.1 . Total variation smoothing was set to very small value --smoothness=0.1 . python3 doodle.py --style GrassPhoto.jpg --output GrassTest.png \ --iterations=10 --phases=4 \ --style-weight=100.0 --variety=0.1 --smoothness=0.1 Activation Function This section compares different activation functions: Rectified Linear (the standard approach that VGG uses), Leaky Rectifier (used in recent adversarial architectures, but a very leaky version), and the most recent Exponential Linear Units . I was experimenting with ELU due to the beautiful function shape that looks suited to image synthesis, and the fact it could reduce the need for batch normalization in deeper networks. Rectified Linear Very Leaky Rectifier Exponential Linear Speculative Explanation It seems ReLU units discard too much information by setting the output to zero if the input is negative. LReLU - specifically the very leaky variant - do much better because of this. However, ELU seems to do better because the distribution of the output is better by the time it reaches layers conv3_1 and conv4_1 , as mentioned in the original paper. This generative experiment is a good way to visualize just how good ELU is at doing its job! It's possible batch normalization would work similarly, however in the generative setting there are no batches and it seems significantly easier to use the right activation function in the first place... Down-Sampling Strategy This section now compares the different ways of down-sampling the activations at regular layers in the deep network. The different options are average pooling (often used in generative architectures), max pooling (often used in classification), and strided convolutions (recent favorite to avoid pools). Average Pooling Maximum Pooling Strided Convolution Unit Numbers As you can see from these trial runs, the number of neurons affects quality incrementally. With fewer neurons, the results are less predictable and certain patterns are not correctly "understood" by the algorithm and become patchy or noisy. Full Units Quarter Units Half Units Network Depth The following experiments were run with half of the units to see if depth improves the quality or degrades it. Overall, from this informal analysis, it seems like additional layers degrades the quality. Double Layers (Half Units) Triple Layers (Half Units) Technical Summary The idea of deep random feature detectors is appealing: it avoids a lot of intensive training and helps adapt existing models to new constraints quickly, as well as scale up and down in quality on demand. Taken further, it could certainly help apply example-based neural style transfer techniques to domains where classifier models are not as strong as in the image domain. Short term, here are two specific things to take away from this experiment: Strided Convolution has become more popular for a variety of reasons, it helps significantly here. Exponential Linear Units are well placed to become the default activation for generative models. Random neural networks don't seem work very well for more advanced image synthesis operations like style transfer or even high quality Neural Doodles ; more research is required. However, for operations like example-based super-resolution of images this could also work very effectively. Addendum This particular project has been fascinating! It's been less than 24h since I randomly stumbled on a surprising result, and after Tweeting about it (with follow up ), I was almost arm-wrestled into doing more experiments and posting the results. It's not yet clear if and how more complex style transfer operations could work reliably for images or other media, but it's a fascinating line of research nonetheless. The process has also been interesting for me: while I specifically set out to investigate Exponential Linear Units and using best practices like strided convolution, I never expected this to come out of the process. It feels appropriate to finish with a quote from Louis Pasteur: "In the field of observation, chance favours only the prepared mind." - Louis Pasteur