Together, Slack and Trello are a deadly duo - kinda like Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker in the first two Rush Hour movies, but not the third... that movie sucked. I use Trello to organize bi-weekly sprints, squash bugs, and to throw in blog post ideas. Slack brings effective team communication, and it keeps me up-to-date with Trello activity. I would often get ideas for product improvements and blog posts in the middle of a Slack conversation, but I would never take the extra effort to open a browser, log in, and jot them down in a new Trello card. I didn't want to lose my train of thought, or miss out on the big laughs caused by failed "bender bot image me"s. I had hoped that the good folks over at Trello Inc would have provided a way to create cards straight from Slack, but I was wrong... Don't fret, it is possible to create Trello cards from Slack! You'll just need to use Slash Commands and set up a few things like a backend. Thankfully, I've produced this guide to make it super easy for you. No programming needed, as I've open-sourced the backend code . Did I mention that it'll cost you nothing because you'll be deploying the backend to Heroku? Note that this step-by-step guide was inspired by SEF Industries' blog post , but deploying to Heroku is a million times easier than Google App Engine. Step 1: Get the API Key, App Token, Board ID, and List ID from your Trello account. 1. Your Trello API Key Log into your Trello account, and then visit to reveal your API key. Enter your API Key here: 2. Generate an App Token Access the following URL to generate a new App Token: Once you've allowed slack-to-trello (the backend service you're going to later create on Heroku) to post on your behalf, you'll be given the new App Token. Enter your App Token here: 3. A Trello Board ID You'll need the Board ID of where you want your new cards to be created in. Open a board in Trello, and then make a note of the Board ID that's indicated in the URL. Enter your Board ID here: 4. A Trello List ID Once you've enter in your Board ID, you can then retrieve the IDs for your Lists in that particular Trello Board. Access the following URL to get your List IDs: If successful, you'll see your List IDs like so. We'll only need one of the List IDs for now. Enter a single List ID here: Step 2: Create a backend hosted on Heroku I've opened source code that will allow you host your own backend. The backend securely creates new cards in Trello from Slack. Let's host it on Heroku; it's free and deploying it takes only a minute. Just press this button, , to begin deploying on Heroku (It'll ask you to create a Heroku account if you don't have one already, no credit card needed). You'll then land on this page where you need to enter in your Trello API Key and App Token from Step 1. Once successfully deployed, you can check if your backend is properly running by pressing the "view" button. You should see text saying, "Smooch.io loves Slack and Trello!" Enter your Heroku URL here: Step 3: Create a new Slash Command in Slack Head over to Slack, and create a new Slash Command . Call it /trello. Use this URL to request when the slash is run: Save and you're ready to roll! Step 4: Try it out The format for the slash command is /trello name | description(optional). Test it out the following: /trello integrate with Smooch | smooch.io is awesome You'll see the new card right away in Trello if successful :) Happy Slacking with Trello! Btw, check out Smooch's Slack integration that lets you talk to your app users, directly from Slack.