Storyline Daigo Kobayashi is a devoted cellist in an orchestra that has just been dissolved and now finds himself without a job. Daigo decides to move back to his old hometown with his wife to look for work and start over. He answers a classified ad entitled "Departures" thinking it is an advertisement for a travel agency only to discover that the job is actually for a "Nokanshi" or "encoffineer," a funeral professional who prepares deceased bodies for burial and entry into the next life. While his wife and others despise the job, Daigo takes a certain pride in his work and begins to perfect the art of "Nokanshi," acting as a gentle gatekeeper between life and death, between the departed and the family of the departed. The film follows his profound and sometimes comical journey with death as he uncovers the wonder, joy and meaning of life and living. Written by Regent Releasing Taglines: The gift of last memories Details Release Date: 19 June 2009 (USA) Box Office Opening Weekend: $74,945 (USA) (29 May 2009) Gross: $1,542,503 (USA) (11 June 2010) Company Credits Technical Specs See full technical specs " Did You Know? Trivia To provide realistic bodies while preventing the corpses from moving, after a lengthy casting process the crew chose extras who could lie as still as possible. For the bath house owner Tsuyako Yamashita, this was not possible owing to the need to see her alive first, and a search for a body double was unfruitful. Ultimately, the crew used digital effects to transplant a still image of the actor during the character's funeral scene, allowing for a realistic effect. See more " Quotes [first lines] Daigo Kobayashi : [voice over narration] When I was a child winter didn't feel so cold. It's nearly two months since I moved home from Tokyo. It's been an awkward time. See more " Soundtracks Symphony No. 9 in D Minor, Op. 125 - 'Choral': IV. Presto, Allegro assai Written by Ludwig van Beethoven See more " Frequently Asked Questions User Reviews Message Boards Recent Posts