When "The Dude" Lebowski is mistaken for a millionaire Lebowski, two thugs urinate on his rug to coerce him into paying a debt he knows nothing about. While attempting to gain recompense for the ruined rug from his wealthy counterpart, he accepts a one-time job with high pay-off. He enlists the help of his bowling buddy, Walter, a gun-toting Jewish-convert with anger issues. Deception leads to more trouble, and it soon seems that everyone from porn empire tycoons to nihilists want something from The Dude. Written by J. Lake Taglines: They figured he was a lazy time wasting slacker. They were right. Motion Picture Rating ( MPAA ) Rated R for pervasive strong language, drug content, sexuality and brief violence | See all certifications " Release Date: 6 March 1998 (USA) Budget: $15,000,000 (estimated) Opening Weekend: $5,533,844 (USA) (6 March 1998) Gross: $17,439,163 (USA) (29 May 1998) Color: Color (Technicolor) See full technical specs " Trivia The film's overall structure was influenced by the detective fiction of Raymond Chandler . Ethan Coen said, "We wanted something that would generate a certain narrative feeling - like a modern Raymond Chandler story, and that's why it had to be set in Los Angeles ... We wanted to have a narrative flow, a story that moves like a Chandler book through different parts of town and different social classes". The use of the Stranger's voice-over also came from Chandler as Joel remarked, "He is a little bit of an audience substitute. In the movie adaptation of Chandler it's the main character that speaks off-screen, but we didn't want to reproduce that though it obviously has echoes. It's as if someone was commenting on the plot from an all-seeing point of view. And at the same time rediscovering the old earthiness of a Mark Twain ." See more " Goofs After Walter jumps out of The Dude's car, The Dude scrambles across to the driver's side, and the door is already closed. See more " Quotes [first lines] The Stranger : [voiceover] Way out west there was this fella... fella I wanna tell ya about. Fella by the name of Jeff Lebowski. At least that was the handle his loving parents gave him, but he never had much use for it himself. Mr. Lebowski, he called himself "The Dude". Now, "Dude" - that's a name no one would self-apply where I come from. But then there was a lot about the Dude that didn't make a whole lot of sense. And a lot about where he lived, likewise. But then again, maybe that's why I ... See more " Crazy Credits Big Associate Editor.... Big Dave Diliberto See more " Connections Referenced in Bros Before Hos (2013) See more " Soundtracks Behave Yourself Written by Booker T. Jones , Steve Cropper , Al Jackson Jr. and Lewie Steinberg Performed by Booker T. & the M.G.s (as Booker T. & The MG's) Published by Irving Music, Inc. (BMI) Courtesy of Atlantic Recording Corp. By Arrangement with Warner Special Products See more " Recent Posts