Machine Learning, AI, and the Emperor's Vest Those of us who work in data science and artificial intelligence have a love/hate relationship with hype. We're excited by self-driving cars, machines understanding complex images, and computers beating humans at Go (if not StarCraft). On the other hand, we've heard stories of the last 'AI winter' and we fear that hype (and the inevitable trough of disillusionment that follows) is setting us up for another one. We know machine learning is math, not magic , and we don't want to be left holding the bag when someone declares that the AI emperor has no clothes. As always, the truth is more nuanced. It's not that the AI emperor has no clothes; he's just wearing a vest. A practical, warm, rugged vest full of proven technology with concrete applications. This is a good thing - just like AI, a vest is a lot more useful than the bejeweled imperial garb we pretend to see when talking about building artificial brains. Machine learning researchers and practitioners are justifiably nervous: the mainstream press now talks about "deep learning" mimicking the human brain, AI-powered bots stealing everybody's jobs, and AI being a "new life form that's a potential threat to our survival as a species". But experts in the field have declared the brain metaphor tenuous at best, and preventing AI from turning evil akin to preventing overpopulation on Mars. They are legitimately concerned with using technology ethically and responsibly, but also resent being cast as the inept, wild-haired scientists unleashing evil into the world (or, even worse, accused of selling AI snake oil). Machine learning is already changing humanity. Much of that change is good - from better spelling correction to personalized medical diagnosis. Some of it is bad: machine learning can unwittingly perpetuate racism, hate and discrimination, mirroring the worst parts of humanity. But we need to stop thinking about AI as magic. What we call machine learning is a collection of mathematical techniques  - albeit advanced enough that they're starting to be indistinguishable from magic. This practical AI vest may not be as exciting as a magical suit. But it serves us well, and while we're working on making the cargo pants we don't have to worry about being sweet summer children caught in the next AI winter with only imaginary clothes on.