Introducing Sign in with Slack Today, we're introducing Sign in with Slack, a way for customers to quickly sign up for your app using their Slack identity. More than just log in, Sign in with Slack keeps teams connected across the many apps they use for work. When a user signs up for your app using Sign in with Slack, they'll be instantly connected to their teammates within your product. For customers, this is an invisible but delightful feature. It exemplifies our mission in action - making people's working lives simpler, more pleasant, and more productive - by keeping teams effortlessly in sync. Developer Benefits With Sign in with Slack, you can whitelist an entire Slack team as a group of new users, which eases billing and IT administration and improves end-user experience. On top of that, Sign in with Slack has some other handy advantages: It's fast : sign up users for your app quickly by allowing them to use their existing Slack login and profile information. It's simple : add sign in with Slack in 3 steps. Enrich your app experience with Slack team and user information. It's secure : we'll handle managing SSO providers and two-factor authentication, you just implement standard OAuth. How to Use Sign in with Slack Integrating Sign in with Slack with your app should feel familiar because it uses OAuth 2.0 , just like the rest of the Slack platform. We've created a new set of OAuth scopes that let you choose which bits of user and team information are needed to sign in to your app. identity.basic : request access to basic identifying information about the user and their team identity.email : request access to the user's email address identity.avatar : request access to the user's profile image identity.team : request access to the user's team name, domain, and icon image Once someone's completed the OAuth flow, all you need to do is call the users.identity method, and you'll get all of the bits you requested for that team and user. { "ok": true, "team": { "domain": "kingsguard", "id": "T03PKGL8S", "image_102": " ", "image_132": " ", ..., "name": "Kingsguard" }, "user": { "email": [email protected] , "id": "U03PKGLEE", "name": "Arthur Dayne" } } Partners Using Sign in with Slack Here are a few examples of companies using Sign in with Slack today. Quip Quip's brand new Slack app, equipped with Sign in with Slack, is launching today. Sign in with Slack can be found right on their home page. Upon signing in with Slack you are automatically connected to your Slack team within Quip. No extra team creation required - your team already exists within Quip in one fell swoop. From there, you can use Slack and Quip to supercharge the way that you brainstorm and create documents with your team. Figma The team at Figma also uses Sign in with Slack to onboard new customers and connect them with their teammates within Figma. Since Figma is a collaborative design product, staying connected to your team is critical. Upon signing in with Slack, Figma groups you with your Slack teammates so that you can get straight to work on files shared among your team. We have four other apps using Sign in with Slack today that you can check out: Kifi , OfficeVibe , Slackline and Smooz . To get started Whether you're already a Slack developer or just getting started, adding Sign in with Slack to your app is simple. Follow our walkthrough , and your customers will be on their way to a more pleasant sign in experience in no time. We're always happy to hear your feedback. If you have any questions or suggestions for improvement, please write in or tweet @SlackAPI .