Bug Type 3: Missing Specifications Description The specification was missing, therefore the implementation is missing. Simply put, these are the scenarios you never imagined when designing your product. They are otherwise referred to as the "unknown" type. Their impact is unpredictable and can range from embarrassing to catastrophic . Common Causes Insufficient Research You've probably heard the phrase that that when you assume, you make an ass out of you and me. Assumed value is no different and can come with tricky nuances. When these are not researched, an unknown bug hatches! Ignorance Someone realizes the "implementation is wrong" at release time, even though the expected behavior was not specified! Sound familiar? These bugs come into existence due to the lack 0f specifications. Highest Impact Quality Function Behaviour Driven Development Huh? Again? Yep! The deliberate discovery stage of BDD is a great way to use the wisdom of crowds and identify unknowns. The discovery stage is not unidirectional but rather, it's iterative. It is intended to create questions as well as answers. Some of these questions require further research to feed back to the team. This cycle of interactions is an excellent way to deliberately discover unknown specifications. Summing it up For the foreseeable future, as long as we create software, we will inadvertently create some bugs. But just my old man can share with me a proven technique to save my night's sleep, so we can learn some great techniques to save us a lifetime of fighting bugs. The trick is not to think about how to fight them, it is to understand how to never invite them into a fight in the first place. "The greatest victory is that which requires no battle." ― Sun Tzu , The Art of War I will be writing more on other quality functions that you can put in place to increase the quality of your product. If this theme and my comments resonate with you, please let me know by clicking that heart icon and recommending the article to expand the reach of this message. Join our mission We at Xolv.io are out to fix the problem of software bugs. If, like me, you are passionate about quality, click the button below to follow me here on Medium and here on Twitter , where I will update you on our progress. You can also contact me or comment below if you have any thoughts or ideas. I look forward to helping you deliver higher quality software, faster. Sam. Other articles I've written: