Live-streaming video is latest frontier of social media. Established social networks (e.g., Facebook, Twitter) have their own apps, while first-movers in the space (e.g., Meerkat) are busily trying to differentiate themselves. Live-stream content ranges from impromptu video blogging to produced efforts by industry veterans. For small businesses, live-streaming video may be a helpful, new way to engage an audience and establish a brand with little or no cost. Here is a list of live-streaming video apps. There are fun, live-streaming apps to connect with and update followers, and there are live-video platforms with advanced production and lead-generation tools. Many of these apps are free. Facebook Live lets people, public figures, and Pages share live video with followers and friends on Facebook. Interact with viewers in real time. Field their burning questions, hear what's on their minds, and check out their Live Reactions to gauge how your broadcast is going. Followers can receive notifications when you go live so they know to tune in to your broadcasts at just the right time. Price: Free. - Periscope is Twitter's live-streaming app. Going live will instantly notify your followers, who can join, comment, and send you hearts in real-time. When your broadcast is over, make it available for replay so viewers can watch later. Replays currently last 24 hours. Delete your replay at any time. Broadcast to specific people, or share on Twitter. Price: Free. - Streamup is a fun way to live stream interactive shows. Streamup recently announced its first slate of live-streaming originals in an effort to become a live television network for the Internet generation. Go live right from the app, or stream like a pro by using an encoder for cool special effects, overlays, filters, and more. Become a partner to start earning revenue from your streams. Streamup's president and chief content officer is Will Keenan, an alum of two video producers: Maker Studios and Endemol Beyond USA. Price: Free. - YouNow is another fun app for interactive live-stream videos. Chat and promote content - followers can even buy gifts for their favorite broadcasters. YouNow recently launched original content with two food-related shows, including one with Roker Labs, spearheaded by Today co-host Al Roker. Price: Free. - Hang w/ is a live-streaming platform for access to people, places, events, and moments. With plenty of celebrity endorsements, Hang w/ has over one million users and three million live broadcasts. Hang w/ is running a Crowdfunder campaign to raise capital. Price: Free. - Livestream is a platform to broadcast to millions. Livestream also offers hardware, software, and production products for a complete end-to-end solution. Broadcast live from your iPhone or iPad to viewers watching on Facebook, Twitter, Livestream, or any other website. Engage with viewers via the built-in chat. Monitor audience engagement with proprietary analytics. Price: Basic plan is $42 per month. - Stringwire is an app to share event-driven live video in real-time. If you encounter a story, use Stringwire to stream live video. Collaborate with others to tell stories with live video from multiple perspectives. Viewers can chat and search through video to find out what's happening live. All streamed video is automatically stored online for future viewing and sharing. Price: Free. - Ustream is an online and live-streaming platform for broadcasters, teams, and marketers. The platform hosts over two million live videos every month, including NASA TV and BusinessBlueprint.com , a 24-hour business channel. The platform also includes a variety of videos on getting started, tracking your progress, and generating leads. Add graphics, presentations, guests, and more. Get video production and on-site support for premium events. Price: Plans start at $99 per month. - Nom is from YouTube co-founder Steve Chen. Launched at South by Southwest, the live-streaming platform has a foodie bent, but Nom supports all live video. Insert rich content, such as recorded video clips, GIFs, and photos. In addition to shows, users can post photographs, produced videos, and blog posts or articles to each channel. Price: Free. - Meerkat is working on something new. Recently CEO and founder Ben Rubin posted an update outlining the difficulties the live-streaming app has faced against platforms like Twitter-Periscope and Facebook Live. Currently, Meerkat is still a stable live-streaming app to broadcast video to your followers. But the first-mover in live-streaming is presumably getting ready to break out in a new way, which could make it a good place to stream. Price: Free. - Snapchat Live Stories are compilations of snaps from snapchatters at events and locations around the world. Live Stories are curated by Snapchat, and typically appear for 24 hours. If you're in the location of a Live Story, you can submit snaps. Snapchat also supports video chat. Look for Snapchat to develop increased live-streaming functionality. Price: Free. - According to VentureBeat , Google is building YouTube Connect, a live-streaming app to take on Periscope and Facebook Live. The app will include chat, tagging, and news-feed features to engage and promote your live content with followers. YouTube already offers live streaming through its Creative Studio, but YouTube Connect will certainly reach a broader audience. Price: Free. -