RIO DE JANEIRO - BRAZIL took a major step toward the impeachment of President Dilma Rousseff on Sunday when the lower house of Congress voted to send her case to the Senate, which will almost certainly refer her for a trial. It now looks likely that the president will be removed from office and replaced by Michel Temer, her vice president. Ms. Rousseff's supporters are furious, her opponents are overjoyed, and Brazil's corrupt politicians are breathing a sigh of relief. In the hourslong televised session on Sunday, members of Congress explained their decisions as they voted for impeachment: They voted "for peace in Jerusalem," "for the truckers," "for the Free Masons of Brazil" and "because of the Communism that threatens this country." Very few members of congress based their votes on the charges that have actually been brought against the president: that she violated regulations regarding public finances. Those in the opposition claim that they want to send a message about good governance. But the real reason the president is being impeached is that the Brazilian political system is in ruins. Her impeachment will provide a convenient distraction while other politicians try to get their own houses in order. An enormous corruption investigation, known as Operação Lava Jato, or Operation Car Wash, has exploded in the political system's face. At first, when the investigation began in 2014, investigators accused members of Ms. Rousseff's left-wing Workers Party of using Petrobras, the state-run oil company, to trade kickbacks for political favors. There is more and more evidence that this kind of practice was common among Brazilian political parties. The investigation has expanded to include a host of figures across the political spectrum, including roughly 50 politicians and a handful of business leaders. Unlike many Brazilian politicians, Ms. Rousseff isn't accused of taking bribes or trading cash for favors. But she is a weak and unpopular president. The economy has stagnated, thanks in large part to dropping global commodity prices and economic mismanagement during her first term. She has been forced to cut spending and implement painful austerity measures. In short, she is an easy target for the public's anger. Bringing down Ms. Rousseff - even on charges unrelated to the original corruption investigation - would be a nice season finale to Operation Car Wash: a catharsis of epic proportions. It would also provide corrupt, right-wing politicians, the largest constituency in Congress, with a reprieve from public scrutiny. The inspiration for this strategy is Eduardo Cunha, the head of Brazil's lower house, who has led the impeachment charge. At the same time that he was starting the impeachment process against Ms. Rousseff, he was being investigated on corruption charges that include money laundering and taking bribes. So far, his strategy of muddying the waters has worked perfectly: The impeachment proceedings have continued and shifted the focus away from Mr. Cunha's own legal problems. Many of the members of Congress who voted for impeachment on Sunday are hoping they'll enjoy the same good fortune. Members of the task force responsible for Operation Car Wash are worried. In an interview with BBC Brazil, Deltan Dallagnol, the lead public prosecutor in Operation Car Wash, said he feared a post-impeachment political offensive against the investigation. A change in government, he said, could bring to power congressmen who are themselves under investigation, who might "pull up their sleeves and move against the operation" when media exposure declines and public interest fades. Many observers in Brazil also fear that a government led by Mr. Temer, the vice president, could reach an "acordão," or big agreement, with other parties to declaw the investigation. This could be achieved by passing laws that make future anti-corruption initiatives more difficult, or by replacing the people in charge of the Federal Police. Even if all that fails, many of the people who voted to impeach Ms. Rousseff on Sunday hope that judges will be more lenient when they are not subject to public pressure and extensive media coverage. Ms. Rousseff's supporters claim that her impending impeachment is part of a coup. It's not. Legal procedure is being followed, and it seems likely that Ms. Rousseff broke the law. But that doesn't mean it's right. The crisis brought on by the Operation Car Wash scandals should have been part of Brazil's painful - and extraordinary - process of establishing a functioning judiciary and fighting corruption. But Ms. Rousseff's fall is not the logical conclusion of that happy story. Far from being the dawn of a new era, it may very well turn out to be the way the old political class reasserts control over the country - and escapes jail.