Storyline Eve is waiting backstage to meet her "idol" aging Broadway Star, Margo Channing. It all seems innocent enough as Eve explains that she has seen Margo in EVERY performance of the current play she is in. Only Playright critic DeWitt sees through Eve's evil plan, which is to take her parts and fiance. When the fiance shows no interest, she tries for Celeste Holmes husband and playwright. But, DeWitt (George Brandt) stops her. After she accepts her award, she decides to skip the after-party and goes to her room, where we find a young woman named Phoebe, who snuck into her room and fell asleep. This is where the "Circle of Life" now comes to fruition as Eve is going to get played the way she did Margo. Taglines: It's all about women---and their men! Details Release Date: 15 January 1951 (Sweden) Also Known As: Best Performance Box Office Budget: $1,400,000 (estimated) Opening Weekend: $10,177 (USA) (6 October 2000) Gross: $10,177 (USA) (6 October 2000) Company Credits Technical Specs Sound Mix: Mono (Western Electric Recording) See full technical specs " Did You Know? Trivia "Applause" (the Broadway musical version starring Lauren Bacall ) opened at the Palace Theater on March 30, 1970 and ran for 896 performances. See more " Goofs In the Cub room, after Eve has returned from her restroom talk with Karen, Addison DeWitt is tapping his cigarette into the ashtray. The cigarette falls off from the holder. He continues tapping until he realizes it fell off and then he attempts to hide the holder behind his hands. See more " Quotes Margo Channing : As it happens, there are particular aspects of my life to which I would like to maintain sole and exclusive rights and privileges. Bill Sampson : For instance what? Margo Channing : For instance: you! See more " Crazy Credits Eddie Fisher is credited in the cast as 'Stage Manager,' although all of his scenes were cut from the released print. This is not the the singer Eddie Fisher, but another actor. See more " Connections Referenced in Clueless (1995) See more " Soundtracks Thou Swell (1927) (uncredited) Music by Richard Rodgers Played on the piano at the party when Margo tells her friends to fasten their seat belts See more " User Reviews Message Boards Recent Posts