This Friday the media discuss Google's prank failure, Bitcoin investment, Ethereum potential, and executives not feeling responsible for cybersecurity. Cointelegraph has collected important news to help you stay informed. Google's joke Mic Drop feature in Gmail, which muted the conversation and sent out a silly gif, seems to have caused more stresses than smiles. "It's not okay to prank 900 million people", writes Gizmodo . Now, Google has backpedalled and scrapped the prank, after users of its Gmail service lost jobs and angered friends and family. Bitcoin is possibly even more secure than gold Forbes has published a large article on whether it is safe to invest in Bitcoin. Frances Coppola assumes that "it is not "gubbmint" that nervous investors fear, but people". She thinks that the problem lies in investors' desire to invest in safety. Thus, the value of Bitcoin depends on the ability of investors to predict crises. Ethereum is leaps and bounds ahead of all the others Wall Street Daily compares Bitcoin and Ethereum saying that Ethereum has, probably, more potential: it is already seeing the interest of corporate America - including IBM and JP Morgan, as well as of many banks that are studying its model for possible application in an effort to make trading and money transfer more efficient Coinbase asks users for LinkedIn info, citing "Know Your Customer" policy The popular Bitcoin exchange and wallet provider, Coinbase , has begun asking for LinkedIn information as part of their 'Know Your Customer' programme, for users who use the platform for trading. Bitdefender Labs release a new free ransomware security tool Bitdefender anti-malware researchers have released a new vaccine tool that offers protection against the likes of CTB-Locker, Locky and TeslaCrypt. The new tool is available as a free download. The European Central Bank could give 1,300 euros to every person in the euro zone Nordea analyst Jan von Gerich believes ECB could consider sending cash directly to the citizens of the 19 euro zone countries. This solution is the creation of so-called 'helicopter money'-that is, the distribution of free cash to individuals in the hope they'll spend it and boost businesses. UN will use blockchain to fight obesity The World Food Program has decided to align with major supermarket chains and food retailers to curb the growing obesity epidemic in the world. The UN body plans to introduce a system whereby each food based transaction would need to be verified on a blockchain at the store checkout before a customer is allowed to buy food. Executives don't feel personally responsible for cybersecurity According to the new survey commissioned with the Nasdaq , more than 90 percent of corporate executives are not prepared to handle a major attack and cannot read a cybersecurity report. They do not feel personally responsible for cybersecurity or protecting the customer data.