Almost everyone with a smartphone now uses a social messaging app. Echo, Telebit, and Octopocket are three newcomers who want to take it a step further by introducing payments and digital currency right into your chat box. Octopocket Brings Finance to Telegram Although a lot of people around the world are actively using the platform on a regular basis, it lacks some features consumers might be interested in. Access to financial tools, for example, would be something most people will appreciate, and Octopocket is looking to provide exactly that. But what is even more interesting is how the platform does not require users to install additional software, as Octopocket is a bot on top of the social messaging protocol. Preliminary reviews of the Octopocket service are quite positive, as this service makes it a lot easier for Bitcoin enthusiasts to send, receive, and sell their digital currency on the fly. Moreover, this opens up a lot of payment opportunities for all Telegram users in the Spain area, as people have their mobile device on them most of the time. Telebit: First Company to Bring Bitcoin to Telegram Telebit users can send and receive bitcoin through the Telegram bot as well. Additionally, they can display the current Bitcoin price in their preferred fiat currency, and make donations to the Telebit team. With no fees to pay to send and receive money, Telebit has become a favorite Telegram bot for digital currency enthusiasts. ECHO Merges Money Transfers with Private Chats The only downside to ECHO comes in the form of how users need to download a separate app to access this platform and wallet service. Although creating a new account is not that time consuming, other users will need to download the app as well to receive payments. This same principle applies to Telegram, but that company has an enormous customer base already. Which of these three mobile Bitcoin money service solutions is your favorite? Are there other similar platforms you have heard of? Let us know in the comments below! Images courtesy of Shutterstock, ECHO, Telebit, Octopocket It only seems to be a matter of time until Bitcoin becomes a part of the social messaging experience. Jean-Pierre Buntinx is a freelance Bitcoin writer and Bitcoin journalist for various digital currency news outlets around the world, Jean-Pierre also has a keen interest in Fintech and technology, and he is always open to new challenges.