DataStax Enterprise is the database for cloud applications. Running DataStax Enterprise (DSE) in the cloud allows IT leaders to proactively meet business demands more quickly and effectively than with other technologies. Traditionally, if a US based firm were to open a new office in Asia or Europe, the company would need to acquire data center space, procure hardware, rack that hardware, procure software, install the software, and finally configure the software. Optimistically, this process takes 6 months. In many cases, it takes much longer depending on what other challenges present themselves along the way. With DSE in the cloud, it's simple to add a new data center. Doing so provides better SLAs for customers and employees as well as geographical redundancy that ensures continuity of business in the event of a data center failure. All this is possible natively in DSE without complex dedicated software for replication. By deploying in cloud environments, new data centers can be quickly onboarded or decommissioned as business demands. IT can move from an asset maintenance model to providing a menu of SLAs for the business and letting them select what is appropriate. For example, IT might present a business with units in the Americas, Europe and Asia three options: Based on the value of the application (e.g. back office reporting app, customer facing mission critical a spect of business) the business and IT organizations can work together to choose the appropriate SLA and adjust infrastructure to suit that SLA in days rather than months or years. - the company that delivers Apache Cassandra ™ to the enterprise has been working closely with leading cloud providers, including Google to make this scenario a reality for our customers. We're excited to share with you the latest capability of our Google Deployment Manager templates for Google Compute Engine on the Google Cloud Platform . The template experience is entirely automated and allows the creation of DSE clusters running on Google Compute Engine in minutes. Deployment times are typically less than 10 minutes, making it easy to try out new cluster configurations with little time spent on installation. DataStax OpsCenter showing a DSE Cluster with 9 nodes - 3 in Asia, 3 in Europe, 3 in US The screenshot above shows a DSE cluster with a total of 9 nodes, three each in Asia, Europe and the US. This is a screenshot from DataStax OpsCenter, a tool for managing and administering DSE clusters that is installed automatically by the Google Deployment Manager. But, we can do better than a 9 node cluster. DataStax OpsCenter showing a DSE Cluster with 91 nodes - 7 nodes each in 13 Google Cloud Platform zones This screenshot above shows a 91-node DSE cluster! There are 7 nodes in each of the 13 current Google Cloud Platform zones. These are groups of DSE nodes distributed all around the world acting as a single cluster and provisioned in minutes. This cluster is highly resilient - it could lose numerous data centers and continue to function. It also provides great SLAs - applications connecting to the database locally will see minimal latency. The only technology capable of doing this is DataStax Enterprise running on a cloud platform. Thinking back to our scenario above, imagine you manage IT for a Global 2000 company with offices in 13 countries. A deployment like this ensures each region is provided a consistent data platform that is highly reliable and performant. There's nothing like it! We encourage you to try this for yourself: We look forward to hearing about your experiences using DSE on the Google Cloud Platform.