Way back in the Mesozoic Era of the Internet, which was approximately 2009, maintaining your status as an Internet Socialite required a deft understanding of a multi-faceted messaging ecosystem. You obviously had to be logged into AIM, with just the right away message that told your real friends you were still nearby (and you better not skimp on your buddy profile). But you couldn't ignore your MySpace IM or Yahoo Messenger, just in case your maybe-real Internet crushes wanted to chat. And you gotta keep up your nerd cred on IRC. Being popular was hard work! Franz is a free app that combines more than a dozen different messaging services into a single window. Now, though, technology has become more sophisticated and user-friendly. And as messaging has become a key component of how we do almost everything online, our interaction with chat is easy and understandable part of our everyday lives. Wait, no, that's wrong. It's the exact opposite. Messaging is more important, more powerful, and more versatile, and yet wrangling all of our constant conversations together is like herding cats. Except there are a thousand cats, and they're all rabid and loud and running in every direction as fast as they possibly can while meowing horribly offensive things about all the other cats and giving you really important work deadlines. It's not a pretty picture. Years ago, apps like Adium, Meebo, and Trillian quickly became a crucial part of every Internet Socialite's arsenal. All your accounts in one place, neatly organized, so you could remember who's who and what's where at all times. There's nothing like that now, and there really couldn't be; messaging apps are more than just text-sending protocols, they're entire platforms. Every platform is different, and there's no way to neatly combine them. The best we can hope for is to at least bring all those disparate things into one place, which is exactly what Franz does. Franz is a new-ish free app for Mac, Windows, and Linux, that combines more than a dozen different messaging services into a single window. When you open Franz, you can instantly be logged into Slack, WhatsApp, Facebook Messenger, Telegram, Skype, Hangouts, and more. The app itself is just a container-you're basically opening web views of all the apps, tabbed in a single lovely window. By combining them into one place, though, you get a single set of notifications for all your services. A little red "1" will show up next to anything with an unread message, so you know at a glance what's waiting for you. And best of all, you're not stuck switching between a dozen browser tabs or a folder full of apps. Even though you don't, it feels like you have just one messaging app. It's just Franz. Franz isn't a perfect, universal messaging solution. It's not Adium 2.0. But it's the closest thing we're probably ever going to get. As the messaging ecosystem metastasizes and becomes the universal interface for how we do everything, easy access to our many tools is much more realistic than trying to build a single Megazord Messenger that encompasses them all. And besides, this might be better anyway. You get Slack the way it's meant to be used, and with a single key command you're jumping into Facebook's most complete vision of Messenger. Until we get that universal messaging app that would make life so much easier, this is definitely the next best thing. If you bought a Sony or Sharp TV from the past couple of years and you have an iPhone, you've got yourself a new way to navigate your smartwares. At long last, Google's Android TV Remote app is now available in the iOS App Store. It replicates the functionality of the same app for Android , which has been available for years. The most useful function of the app is its double-duty microphone/keyboard feature The remote-control app for Android TV devices isn't all that full-featured-it's essentially just an app version of the plastic remote included with the Google Nexus Player . Regardless, it's a handy backup clicker or a back-from-the-dead use case for an old iPod Touch. You've got your D-pad for navigating menus. Got that home button right there, too. Back button? Check. Even has an icon on there for a-playin' and a-pausin', and you can turn the whole screen into a touchpad like some kind of weirdo. But the most useful function of the app is its double-duty microphone/keyboard feature. You can use your phone as a mouthpiece for Android TV's excellent voice search (hopefully Siri won't get jealous). The app one-ups the Nexus remote by letting you input text with your phone's touchscreen keyboard. Plus, it communicates to your TV or set-top device over Wi-Fi, so you don't need a line-of-sight connection. And yo, it's free. This week at the NAB Show , the annual trade show for people who make video content, virtual reality is going to be everywhere. Condition One , a startup-slash-studio that was earlier to VR filmmaking than most, is making one of the show's early announcements: a new VR camera called the Bison. This 360 rig is made for the kind of run-and-gun documentary shooting the company's known for. Or at least the closest you can get to that given the current state of VR tech. It won't be for sale, but it will be part of the company's toolkit as it continues to make VR movies-so if you want footage from the camera, you have to hire Condition One to shoot it. Here's the rundown on the camera itself: The Bison is named for the first thing Condition One founder Danfung Dennis shot with the initial prototype. It's comprised of 16 cameras, and all together they're capable of shooting full 360-degree video with full 3D audio. It'll produce 5.7K resolution video, at up to 48 frames per second, for up to two hours on one battery charge. It's made of a rugged aluminum, and has an intense cooling system to keep it running even in the hot sun. Even the tripod is made of carbon fiber, so you can't destroy this thing if you try. The camera's minimum focusing distance is two feet, which makes Dennis particularly proud. "We've been really focused on creating presence in the near field," he says. "To have subjects within your arm's reach, to have close subjects to you... You really feel presence." The Bison falls somewhere in the middle of the VR camera field, such as it exists right now. There are solutions like HypeVR , which amounts to an impossibly expensive and cumbersome set of super-high-end RED cameras rigged together for VR. Google has Jump , GoPro has Odyssey , Facebook has Surround 360 . (Bison, by the way, is probably closer to Surround 360 than any other single product.) They're all big, expensive, and mostly made of a bunch of individual cameras stitched together. On the other side are the super-simple 360 cameras, like the Ricoh Theta . Those aren't pro cameras by any stretch. Condition One seems to intend the Bison to be sort of the DSLR for VR; it's more compact and easier to use, but absolutely capable of making something Oscar-worthy. Part of Condition One's journey has involved learning what works, and what doesn't, in virtual reality filmmaking. Before getting into VR, Dennis was a longtime war photographer, so he tends to like to run and gun. But moving around is not exactly a delightful viewing experience in VR-it's more likely to make you sick. So even if it were possible (and it really isn't), it wouldn't make a lot of sense to try and make a shoulder-mounted or hand-held VR camera. But the Bison's close, at only 12.5 pounds. More important, it's rugged enough to go the places you'll want to put it; Dennis has watched as bison, jaguars, and (in a less-frightening shoot) monarch butterflies inspected the camera while he watched from afar. The remote trigger works from a half-mile away, too, so you can keep yourself out of your spherical shot and still get the footage you need. As they worked, Dennis says, they found that the hardest part wasn't the shooting-it was the stitching. Taking a bunch of cameras, and putting all their images together in a way that looks right, is hard and intensive work. The best solutions will make everything seamless, literally and figuratively, and making their own hardware made it easier to build the necessary software too. Now they're trying to figure out what kinds of VR movies people want to watch. And where to put them so people can see them. And how to make money. Right now, in VR, if you solve one problem all you get is a hundred new ones to figure out. More than just about anything you own, your smartphone represents you. Your photos, your communications, your work, your leisure activities, your nudes, everything's in this one rectangular piece of metal and glass. You smartphone, therefore you are. Google is pushing the boundaries of what a case can do to and with your phone, and is obviously committed to a deep sense of personalization and identity with phones. As our phones come to contain our personalities, a good case becomes all the more important. Not only does it keep your phone from shattering on the sidewalk and taking all your memories and plans with it, it turns your phone into something that looks and feels more unique. More personal. More you. Google's taking the idea even further, introducing a new Live Case Creator tool that lets you turn a point on a map or a photo into a phone case you can slap on the back of your Nexus 6 , 6P , or 5X . You go to the creator website, and upload a photo or use the Google Maps interface to select a location. Then, position it on the case however you want, select among Google's many filters, which add color or transmogrify your photo into an abstract art piece. Confirm it, buy it, and Google prints and ships you a case of your very own. Maybe coolest of all, these Live Cases skin the wallpaper of your phone to match your new case. If you go with the map, you can turn your wallpaper into a similarly colored, moving map of where you are right now. If you choose a picture, you can make an album of other shots for your phone to style and switch between automatically. There's also a button on the back of each case that will launch your phone's camera (if you choose a photo case) or find you nearby places in Maps (if you pick a location). Google first hinted at plans like this when it worked with Skrillex on a handful of customized phone cases. Googlers say they were blown away by the response to that project, and that people wanted more. The company's pushing the boundaries of what a case can do to and with your phone, and is obviously committed to a deep sense of personalization and identity with phones. It's always been part of Google's vision for Android, right down to the tagline: be together. Not the same. Maybe before long picking a phone case won't be like choosing clothes from the rack, finding the garment that fits you most closely. It'll be more like making your own clothes, and getting it exactly right. If the rumors are correct, Apple is bringing back a smaller iPhone . This makes sense. There's no such thing as a one-size-fits-all smartphone or even a two-sizes-fit-all smartphone. Some people want a phone that fits in the pocket of their skinny jeans. Other people have larger-sized skinny jeans. A third group of slacks-wearing people want a phone the size of a skateboard deck. The same idea holds true for almost everything. Some people want big versions of things that are supposed to be small. Others want small versions of things that are supposed to be big. All of this is possible. On my desk right now, there's an oversized pencil, an undersized building, a miniature hockey player with a disproportionately large hockey stick, and a "King Size" Sharpie. Here is a photograph of these objects taken with my phone, which is the size of a skateboard deck: More often than not, things that aren't their appropriate size are whimsical and fun . On occasion, they're even thought-provoking. Examining an object that isn't normal-size lets you appreciate its form or design detached from its function. This will help you forget about taxes for a little while. Alas, acquiring miniature and oversized objects isn't as easy as walking into a store and heading to the "giant" or "tiny" section. Luckily, there are dedicated online outlets for each of these retail needs. For things that are smaller than normal size , perusing the digital aisles of Archie McPhee, Suck UK, and ThinkGeek is a good place to start. McPhee has items such as squirrel-size coffee cups and underpants , a functional miniature drum kit , and a tabletop ark of the covenant . Suck UK has you covered on the guitar-case lunchbox and planet-themed eraser fronts. ThinkGeek is the place to go if you want a miniature filing cabinet for your business cards or a tiny, functional Tesla coil . But those are all readymade products. If you want to create your own miniature projects, cruise by Mini Materials . It's like a Home Depot on the island of Blefuscu : miniature cinder blocks, shipping pallets, bricks, and two-by-fours. There are also tiny packets of concrete mix and minuscule buckets of mortar. For things that are larger than normal size , Archie McPhee is also a handy source, with things like giant googly eyes , a coffee cup that holds around two gallons , and a gigantic slice of toast you can sleep on. But again, if you want oversized stuff, it's best to go to an oversized-stuff specialist. GreatBigStuff.com is the titan of the market, offering mission-critical objects such as plus-size Whoopee Cushions , a flask that holds a gallon of whisky , a giant functional computer mouse , and a massive (and edible) Ferrero-Rocher candy . You can also buy a large stack of fake cash to use as a foot rest and an unlimited supply of oxygen for $1 . For things that are actual size , try all other stores. What if you could play a videogame with a banana? Or a drum machine with a burrito? MaKey MaKey lets you do exactly that-and more. MaKey Makey turns everyday objects into digital touchpads for your computer. Jay Silver and Eric Rosenbaum designed it while they were in grad school at MIT. Inspired by the maker movement, they wanted to create an open-ended way of getting people to think creatively about how kids interact with our increasingly networked world. The result is a clever kit that makes a controller of literally anything that conducts electricity. "Makey Makey is a device for allowing people to plug the real world into their computers," said David Ten Have of JoyLabz, which produces the kit. "We want people to be able to see the world as their construction kit. And basically the way MaKey MaKey works is that it pretends to be a USB keyboard." Each kit comes with a circuit board-the heart of the kit-a set of alligator clips, and a USB cable that plugs into your computer. The USB provides power to the circuit board, and the alligator clips link the board to any object that conducts electricity. Turns out, a lot of things conduct electricity. Food. Plants. Play-Doh. Even you."We were shooting for creating a product that had an incredibly low floor for participation, but an incredibly high ceiling for expression," said Ten Have. "We're seeing things made as simple as a banana piano and as advanced as measuring tools for chemistry labs, for instance." The possibilities seem endless. Kids can turn their art into an instrument. Connect the alligator clips to people's hands to make a human drum machine. People have transformed a trash can into a calculator and a slice of pizza into a game controller. Your garbage can is full of new controllers . Fresh air can be harder to come by than you might think. If you have pets or you live in a city or it's cold outside, you are almost certainly breathing air that is full of contaminants that can make you sick, and even trigger asthma and allergies. You can't do much about the air you breathe at work or on the train, but you can control the air inside your home. The problem is that most air purifiers are ugly, loud, and some even omit ozone-which can be a serious lung irritant. Airmega tackles all of those problems with the Smart Air Purifier , which is (reasonably) attractive, quiet, and doesn't spew toxins. It's also a smart appliance that's actually smart. The Airmega keeps you abreast of the air quality in your place, and an app (of course it's got an app) lets you know if the air's gotten funky while you're on the road. If so, simply activate it remotely and come home to fresh air. A handy automatic mode lets the purifier turn itself on whenever the air gets stale, and an eco-friendly mode shuts it off after 10 minutes. The machine has filters on two sides, so it inhales more bad air and exhales more good. This thing can renew the air in a 1,560 square foot space twice an hour. Airmega claims the carbon and HEPA filters remove 99.97 percent of the junk in the air, and the app (and a sensor on top of the device) tell you when it's time to change them. Airmega says they're good for a year. These things aren't cheap, though. The smaller model, the 300S, will cost $749 when it's available through Airmega and Amazon later this month. The larger 400S will run you $849. But then, how much are your lungs worth? A little over three years ago, the Popslate presented an intriguing idea: What if a case could turn the back of your phone into an E Ink display? Like a lot of first-generation, crowdsourced products, the original didn't quite live up to the promise. Popslate 2, though, looks like a very promising course correction. The original Popslate, which finally materialized last spring, worked as advertised. Its limitations, though, made it difficult to justify as an everyday case. It charged with a different cable than the iPhone 6 it was designed to fit, and at launch only displayed still images pushed from an app on the front of the phone. It eventually used IFTTT to prompt screen updates without manual intervention, but even that required a little bit more digital elbow grease-and a little less functionality-than might justify the added bulk and expense. Popslate 2 doesn't just promise to address these issues; it actively adds plenty of functionality as well. It's an evolution, not merely refinement. To start, Popslate 2 not only ditched microUSB for the Apple-preferred Lightning cable, the case itself provides a backup battery that can add up to nine hours of talk time (or four hours of browsing) to your iPhone. It manages to do so while still reducing the thickness versus the original Popslate by nearly half. The display itself has improved, as well. Still "shatterproof," it's now 200 dpi versus the previous version's 115, and has a pleasant-looking curve to it. There's also an easy way to navigate the latest Popslate on the display itself. Three capacitive touch buttons at the bottom of the display let you switch between apps and scroll through content. More important than the hardware upgrades, though, are the software smarts Popslate has added. Rather than lean on static images and clumsy IFTTT integration, Popslate now pulls directly from a handful of useful apps to maintain a dynamic display. You still need to download and use the Popslate app to customize your black-and-white rear display, but your options have expanded. "We are leveraging sources with APIs and pulling that content straight into the Popslate app," says co-founder Greg Moon. "Planned integrations for launch are: NYT, Twitter, Accuweather, and Google Calendar. We are also putting together partnerships around sports and stocks, which likely will also be part of the launch." Moon says the company determined what apps and areas to focus on based on people's IFTTT usage on the original Popslate. In addition to the news, weather, and social functions it has already has-and the sports and stocks to come-you can expect to see wearable and IoT data apps at some point as well. Popslate 2 also comes with a Wallet function that lets you display items with bar or QR codes, like boarding passes or concert tickets. That's not to say everything is perfect. While the ideal app might seem to be Kindle-reading E Ink beats reading on an LCD display any day-you won't find Amazon's e-reading software here. You can use Popslate 2 as an e-reader, but currently only through Project Gutenberg, a free e-book resource whose catalog features mostly public domain classics. While Moon wouldn't confirm if there were plans for Kindle down the road, he's confident that the e-book selection will expand. "We are also in discussions with additional e-book providers," says Moon. "Unfortunately we can't disclose the parties at present for confidentiality purposes. As a result, our e-book sources and supported formats (including EPUB) will expand substantially after launch." The "after launch" part is the other small cause for concern. Like its forebear, Popslate 2 is a crowdfunded project. But while it's generally healthy to be skeptical of Indiegogo concepts, the fact that the Popslate team has already delivered once offers at least some confidence in the second generation. It's expected to ship this July, at a cost of $149 (or $69 for early backers). A second E Ink display isn't a new idea; a company called Yotaphone has even built one into the handset itself. But if Popslate 2 delivers the improvements it's promising, it will have made a pretty good product pretty great. Considering that the average smartphone user takes out their phone more than 220 times a day , you might want to invest in a nice case. Wood is generally prettier than plastic, and while there are a variety of wooden phone cases to choose from, most of them have some visible plastic or rubber that totally distracts from that outdoorsy vibe you're going for. Luckily, the Woodline case for iPhone 6 and 6s is made by Pad & Quill , has a 100 percent wooden exterior. OK, it's not all wood: Unless it was a quarter-inch thick, a totally wooden phone case would probably crack when dropped. The outer wooden shell is filled with Aramid fibers, the same stuff used on drumheads and jet engine enclosures. If you prefer keeping your phone in your pocket, the Woodline is ultra-thin so you can easily do so. Seriously: According to Pad & Quill, it's as thin as a dime, so it's definitely not going add any noticeable bulk. The cases are all handcrafted out of real wood, so each one looks different and is engraved by the carpenter who made it. The cases come in four different types of wood: American Cherry, Rosewood, Zebra, or American Walnut, so you can pick the grain that most suits your daily grind. The case is currently available for preorder and will begin shipping next week. Raspberry Pi, the computer that literally fits in the palm of your hand, isn't for everyone. It comes with circuitry exposed, without a case, input method, or, until now, much in the way of connectivity. With the addition of Wi-Fi and Bluetooth, though, Raspberry Pi 3 comes closer to a pocketable PC for everyone. The third generation of Raspberry Pi in its four years of existence, Raspberry Pi 3 integrates 802.11n Wi-Fi and Bluetooth 4.1. Previously, you had to employ some dongle magic to add that functionality. The only other big upgrade-there are, after all, only so many components to upgrade-is the processor. Where previously sat a 900MHz 32-bit, quad-core ARM Cortex-A7 CPU now sits a 1.2GHz 64-bit, quad-core ARM Cortex-A53 CPU. If those numbers mean nothing to you, just know that it's about 10x the performance of the original Raspberry Pi, and over 50 percent better than the previous iteration. Otherwise, the Pi remains largely the same. It's roughly the same size and shape as generations past, aside from some minor component shuffling to accommodate the antenna that allows for its newfound wireless connectivity. Most importantly, it's holding on to that $35 price. For the cost of a few decent deli sandwiches, you can still own a fully functional (and now, even more so) pint-sized computer. It's important, too, that Raspberry Pi keep building on its success. No shortage of micro-computer competitors have sprung up in the years since the original Pi's introduction, some of which, like the Arduino 101, have already either promised or delivered an advanced feature set. And for three or four times the price of a Pi 3, consumers can opt for a "PC on a Stick" dongle, like Lenovo's Ideacentre Stick or Intel's Compute Stick, that offers the convenience of a dongle form factor, and the ability to plug directly into a monitor. Nobody's done it better for longer, though, than the Raspberry Pi Foundation. It still takes a little bit of know-how to fit it into your life, but one of the best bargains in tech is even more so now. Today Oculus Rift unveiled three new VR-ready PCs that excited, ready-to-be-completely-immersed gamers can pre-order in one week. The new PC towers, from Dell, Alienware, and ASUS, are designed to handle the powerful new VR graphics, which take a massive amount of rendering power to bring games to life in your headset. To no one's surprise, they don't come cheap. Expect to pay between $1,000 and $2,500 for a Oculus Rift-ready PC-but if you were one of the enthusiasts that pre-ordered Rift, you may be eligible for a discount. And if you already own a super computer, there's a chance that it might already be Rift-friendly already. You can test with Oculus's compatibility tool , which you have to download so it can scan your system's current capabilities. A traditional 1080p game requires 124 million shaded pixels per second to render the visualizations. Oculus Rift's VR program needs about three times that rendering power. According to the company blog, a Rift runs at 2160x1200p on dual displays and requires somewhere in the range of 400 million shaded pixels per second. TL;DR, most computers are way too weak to run VR headsets. So what will people will be able to do with their new VR-ready PCs? Well considering Facebook acquired Oculus Rift for $2 billion dollars last year, and keeping in mind that the platform now counts over one billion users, the company is certainly poised to do big things. Oculus already boasts an impressive roster of immersive experiences, including porn , reading a book on a beach , or playing golf with robots . Keeping a journal is a pain in the ass. It's a scientifically-proven wonderful thing to do-to preserve your memories, explore your feelings, record the things you do and notice and care about-but it's a lot of work to sit down every day and get your Dear Diary on. Day One has always cleverly skirted that hassle by turning a journal entry into something more like a splits counter on a stopwatch. The app takes your location, motion data, and more, and turns it into a snapshot of your life at any time you choose. How you fill it out-or don't-with words, pictures, video, and whatever else, is then up to you. The app's been around for a few years for Mac and iPhone, but developer Bloom Built just released its first complete overhaul ever. The new Day One (insanely named Day One 2-yes, really) has a slicker design, a much bigger emphasis on photos, and a handful of new ways to filter your journal to see entries from a certain place or time or from a specific topic. You can even have multiple journals, in case you want to separate your obsessive cataloging of every book you read from your "feelsy" entries. The Mac app is a great browser for your old entries, and the iPhone app is well-tuned to make saving and creating those entries really easy. Just 3D-touch to start a new entry, snap or upload a photo, add a caption, and poof: You're a journaler. The app is also unusually good at giving you control over your privacy and data. You can set a passcode, and at any time export all your data to PDF or a plain text file. It's a lot more secure than hiding your journal underneath your mattress. Stomaching the price might be a little tough ($9.99 for the iPhone app, $39.99 for Mac, though if you buy right now it's half-off), but that's the hardest part. Everything else about keeping a journal will suddenly be a lot easier. More so than any kind of modern technology, digital cameras have pushed retro designs into the mainstream. Fujifilm , Nikon , Panasonic , and Olympus all have their own throwback shooters-and Leica has never really strayed from its timeless designs. It's not just a gimmick, either. In the world of photography, retro style is sensible: Unlike today's sleek, touchscreen-controlled phones and tablets, experienced photographers want to have all the knobs, buttons, and dials they need at their fingertips. The fetching Olympus PEN-F is the company's latest old-school camera, and it bears the same name and stylistic touches as Olympus' 35mm film SLR cameras from the early- to mid-1960s. While a tribute to a 35mm film camera would suggest the PEN-F has a full-frame sensor, that isn't the case. It's built around a Micro Four-Thirds sensor like the other cameras in the PEN series. This sensor's brand new, though. It's a 20-megapixel imager, bolstered by Olympus' excellent five-axis stabilization system. It also does the same cool things as Olympus' recent OMD series cameras. There's the "Hi Res" mode found in the OMD E-M5 Mark II , a tripod-optimized feature that moves the sensor around to capture a 50-megapixel shot. There's also the focus-bracketing feature found in the E-M5 II, E-M10, and E-M1. The PEN series usually bears lesser specs than Olympus' higher-end OMD lineup, but not this one. The PEN-F is basically an OMD-level camera in a throwback body. It captures continuous shots at a rate of up to 20fps, has a lightning-fast autofocus system, boasts shutter speeds up to 1/16,000 of a second, and shoots RAW. Video capture tops out 1080p at 60fps, although you're able to record time-lapse video in 4K at 5fps. For sure, the most compelling thing about this camera is its body. There's a distinct dial on the front that lets you toggle between monochrome, color, and filter effects. Up top, machined aluminum dials handle mode selections, shutter, and exposure compensation, while a heavy-duty scroll wheel on the back lets you dial everything in. This is also the first PEN camera with an eye-level viewfinder; the others only have a live-view LCD screen. And it's no half-assed EVF, as its OLED display has 2.36 million dots of resolution. But there's still a 3-inch flip-and swivel touchscreen on board, and like most cameras these days, Wi-Fi connectivity is built in. Those OMD-level specs in a PEN body come with a price to match, and you'll have to wait about a month to start shooting with it. The PEN-F will be available in early March, priced at $1,200 for the body only. It's compatible with Micro Four-Thirds system lenses-which have a bigger-than-most crop factor of 2x. Your phone is disgusting. I'm sorry, but it's true. It's covered in germs and... well, and worse . It also stays dirty, because you never clean it, because doing so would ruin it. Tricky situation! Tricky and gross. It's something that the Kyocera Digno Rafre looks to remedy. The Digno Rafre, available in Japan, has pretty basic specs for a smartphone; it starts at 16GB storage, has 2GB RAM, a 13MP rear and 2MP front-facing camera. It runs Android 5.1. None of that's enough to turn heads. For neat freaks, though, or those nonplussed by the thought of carrying around millions of bacteria in their pocket every day, it has one crucial advantage: you can wash it with soap. That's more impressive than it may sound. It's hard enough to find a waterproof smartphone today, and until now impossible to find one that can survive the rigors of a rigorous good scrubbing. In fact, even the Digno Rafre has its limits; Kyocera encourages the use of foam-based soap, rather than potentially injurious bars. Kyocera reportedly managed the feat by finding a better way to seal the device. The Digno Rafre's display also works when wet, meaning it may be the first handset targeted specifically at the bubble bath set. The phone's only available in Japan (for $467), and Kyocera has indicated they don't plan to sell it elsewhere. Until they change their minds-or someone else offers a washproof smartphone stateside-you can always opt for constantly wearing gloves, or obsessively washing your hands. Starting today, you can preorder the consumer version of the Gear VR headset for $99. Sure, Samsung's headset has been around for awhile, at least for developers and lucky beta testers who got their hands on the Innovator Edition. But this is the first time the Oculus Rift-powered headset has been sold to regular consumers. The devices will ship November 20. This isn't just some new packaging slapped on the earlier model: According to Oculus , the official Gear VR headset is 19 percent lighter and "features improved ergonomics," like a new touchpad that should make it easier to use. The best news: Gear VR is going to work with more Samsung phones, and there are lots of new games to use it with. If you have a Galaxy S6 Edge, S6, Note 5, or S6 Edge+, you're in the clear (though the last two will require a carrier software update). And perhaps the most exciting new title on the horizon is , a visually stunning game set in an ancient civilization from the makers of Monument Valley . The Gear is just one of a few compelling VR headsets, but it's managed to situate itself nicely for user adoption by aggressively partnering with various media outlets to experiment with consumer VR experiences. Already we've watched NBA games and political debates. Oh yeah, and it's just under 100 bucks. You can order the Gear headset now on Amazon , Best Buy , or from Samsung . We've all done the "pocket pat down" to check we have our phones and wallets before leaving the house. But even if you remember to bring your phone with you, it'll be dead weight if you forget to charge it. Sure, you could always bring a spare charger in your bag, but if you like to go out with only the clothes on your back you know that pocket space is a limited resource. Nomad 's new Wallet for iPhone might be able to help all the bagless chumps out. As its name suggests, the Wallet is a battery pack for your iPhone-but it's no bulky charger: It's no thicker than a standard billfold wallet. It measures in at 95mm (height) x 125mm (width) x 25mm (max thickness), so feel free to stuff it with your disposable income and those fro-yo stamp cards. Nomad was able to keep these dimensions by placing the skinny, yet high powered, 2400 mAh battery along the spine of the Wallet. That's enough juice to fully charge an iPhone 6s. When the Wallet's battery is depleted, it can be recharged by any microUSB charger. Flashing indicator lights will tell you how much energy is stored in the Wallet, and when you are ready to connect it to your iPhone, you can un-sheath its built in Lightning cable. Considering that it can hold all these electronics, your cash, and your cards without looking like a lunchbox, that's some serious space optimization. The Wallet for iPhone can be pre-ordered now for $80 ($20 off retail), and is expected to ship November 15. Love the gaming style of arcades but the physicality of, you know, actually moving? This hack turns indoor rock climbing into a real life video game of sorts-and the creator of the code is working with various rock climbing gyms to bring it to their facilities. Maybe it will hit your local rock wall soon. I've watched the teaser video for the RoBoHoN a few times now, and I still don't know what to make of it. Sharp, who made it, calls it "a phone in human shape, a phone that you feel like talking to." The name itself is a wonky portmanteau of robot and phone. It can be held up next to your ear just like any other phone. Unlike any other phone, though, it is also a talking robot helper projector music toy assistant man. Sure! In the three-minute video, the RoBoHoN plays all sorts of roles. It waves happily at you when your alarm goes off, sits on your car dash, remembers to buy you more toothpaste in a squeaky anime voice, and then bends over at the waist to point its built-in projector at a table to show you photos from your boyfriend while he tells you how much he loves you while you cry, apparently? You can dress RoBoHoN up in a bunch of different accessories, including Swarovski crystals. He's mostly designed to be talked to, but he has a touchscreen on his back in case you need to touch him. On one hand, this is definitely the worst phone ever. You wear it by a lanyard around your neck, the screen is small and bad, and I mean, come on, the thing is huge and unwieldy and you look like you're holding a toy to your face. But the robot? The robot seems pretty great. RoBoHoN uses facial recognition to tell individual people to smile for the camera. He (I think it's a he? I've been saying "he" but it's entirely possible that RoBoHoN exists outside of gender) will help you remember to do stuff; he'll help your kid learn to walk; he'll play music and literally lead the dance party. He can sit, walk, hail cabs, and do a thousand other crazy things. The concept video looks like an out-there student film, or a live-action cut of something Pixar might be working on. But Sharp swears RoBoHoN is a real thing, set for launch next year. In the inevitable army of the robot takeover, this is the one that eats your smartphone. And dammit if it's not just the cutest little everything machine. There's absolutely no reason that your every day computer shouldn't look like an F-22 cockpit simulation. That seems to be the logic behind HP's new 34-inch Curved All-in-One, an impossibly long display that can comfortably accommodate more tabs than is healthy. The shape's not new to HP; the company already sells a 34-inch display that looks basically identical. The resolution isn't as eye-popping as, say, a 5K iMac, but a 5K iMac doesn't curve, or cover nearly three feet of ground, diagonally. Now, though, HP has stuffed a computer inside that display, in a glorious act of why not? Inside, you'll find substantial enough guts: The $1,799 base model comes with the latest Core i5 processor and 8GB of memory, and you can upgrade to as much as 2TB of storage, 16GB RAM, and a discrete Nvidia GTX 960A graphics card. All of which is to say it'll do pretty much whatever you might need it to. Most importantly, though, it is gigantic; a multi-monitor set-up that requires just one glorious monitor. It's even, one might venture, innovative, at a time that the PC industry desperately needs innovation . It'll be available Nov. 8, and while it's obviously intended for those with specific needs and muscular budget, the rest of us can at least appreciate a heaping desktop helping of eye candy when we see it. Keurig Kold, a countertop soda-making machine that Keurig hopes will expand its appeal beyond coffee. Keurig, best known for its pod-based, countertop coffee dispensers, is branching out. The new Keurig Kold provides a chilled counterpoint to the company's previous models, serving up sodas from name-brand pod providers like Coca-Cola and Snapple. If that sounds a bit like SodaStream, that's because it is, although there are a few key differences. The most important of which, for those who've grown weary of carbon dioxide refills, is that Kold uses "Karbonator beads" embedded in its pods to generate CO2. That means no canisters, and no confusion over just how many bubbles to add. That also means the Kold should be equally adept at non-carbonated beverages, including teas, sports drinks, and flavored water; in addition to its partners, Keurig will be offering its own brands in those categories. Regardless of fizz, as you'd expect from the name, the drinks also come out, well, cold, thanks to what Keurig describes as an "aerospace-inspired thermal transfer system." While it's hitting shelves today-or more specifically, hitting Keurig's retail website; it will roll out to stores in select cities later this month-Kold made its debut at an analyst conference this past March, and has been in development the past five years. The long rollout signifies just how important Kold is to Keurig; the company's currently trading at about a third of its 52-week high due to quickly fading sales of its K-Cup-based coffee products, a decline that led the company to announce a 5 percent workforce reduction in August. Kold represents its best chance at a pick-me-up. Then again, Kold's most obvious competition, SodaStream, has been in an extended sales free fall, calling into question whether there's currently a significant market for home carbonation machines in the first place. The device faces other challenges, as well. A coffee pod's prime appeal is ease of use; it's obviously faster and less fussy than parsing out grinds for a traditional drip coffee maker. Making that same case for Kold could be tricky, since it's competing against the simple act of popping the tab on a can, or twisting the top of a bottle. And whatever convenience it does offer doesn't come cheap; Kold comes with an MSRP of $370, with pods costing between $4.50 and $5.00 for a pack of four. Each pod produces a single 8-ounce drink, making your countertop cola more expensive than the grocery store equivalent even before the sunk cost of the machine itself. Push-button drink production has a demonstrable appeal; whether that translates from hot to cold depends on one's counter space, pod appeal, and single-serve obsession. The tablet industry is still going strong, but if we can take away anything from the Microsoft Surface and iPad Pro releases, it's that some people really want keyboards to go with their tablets. Built-in touch screen keyboards simply aren't enough for writing anything longer than a text, and they take up valuable screen space. The thin screen-protector-like keyboards that Microsoft and Apple make are great for portability, but they don't offer the tactile feel that desktop keyboards do. If you want a keyboard that feels awesome (and isn't that portable) what better place to look for inspiration than a good old-fashion typewriter? The folks at Qwerkytoys have created the Qwerkywriter , a tablet keyboard that mimics the look and feel of a typewriter. Even though the Qwerkywriter looks old fashioned, there's plenty of modern tech baked inside. The keyboard pairs with devices via Bluetooth, so even though it has a dock that fits all sorts of tablets, it can be paired with smartphones or even desktop computers. Additionally, that macro return bar isn't just for show: By default, it doubles as an enter key, but can also be programmed to render up to five characters. The Qwerkywriter started as a Kickstarter campaign, but since it already met its goal of $90,000, you can pre-order it now for $329. The pre-orders won't ship out until October or November, but in the meantime you can listen to the satisfying clicks of the Qwerky's keys in action. The maximum load of a PhunkeeDuck-or any other brand of these suddenly popular stand-up scooter boards -is around 300 pounds. The maximum thing you should try to do on one of them is not to fall over. Somehow, personal trainer Bradley Martyn stepped onto one, stuck 315 pounds behind his neck (six 45-pound weights plus a 45-pound bar), and blasted some squats. Four reps, bro. On a spaceboard, bro. This is dangerous, and you should not ever try it. In fact, you can hear the stand-up scooter crack during the initial squat, and again during the fourth rep. Somehow, the contraption held together during the entire feat of strength and balance, and that wasn't the only danger to Martyn's safety. Fall backward, and risk a concussion from the back of your head smacking a solid steel bar. Fall forward, and risk your face being pinned to the floor by 315 pounds. So never attempt this superhuman show of agility, even if you look like He-Man. Still, feel free to watch it repeatedly on the Internet to your heart's desire. Logitech G is launching two new gaming headphones: the G633 and G933 Artemis Spectrum. They are the result of Logitech's sound engineering team's attempt to create a gaming headset that delivers audio comparable to top-shelf headphones. With patent pending Pro-G audio drivers and 7.1 Dolby surround sound, these headphones aim to immerse you into the game. The two headphones look similar, with the G933 as the beefier big brother. The G933 includes a few more features than the G633, such as the ability to operate wirelessly and an additional audio input for sound mixing. But you'll have to pay a little bit more to get these extras, as the G933 costs $200 versus the G633's $150 price tag. Regardless, the two both offer some cool customizable features. By downloading the Logitech Gaming Software, you are able to assign game macro functions to the headset's three programmable G-keys. Additionally, you can use the software to adjust equalizer settings and set up sound profiles that best fit your acoustic preferences. On the other hand, some customizable features are just for fun, like the ability to change the RGB lighting to any color of your choosing. Look out for the Logitech G633 and G933 Artemis Spectrum in October 2015. While your smartphone is an easy conduit for all-emoji conversation, things get a little tough when you find yourself at a regular old laptop. Sure, keyboard shortcuts can get you there, but PC-made discussion is still dominated by... you know, words. Until now! Emoji Key is a set of stickers you can throw on top of your lettered keyboard. Then you just have to install the emoji keyboard on your laptop (the site includes instructions), and boom: You are typing in nothing but emoji. And yes, this would probably get confusing eventually. In Samsung's never-ending quest to take on the iPhone, it's giving customers the chance to test drive one of its Galaxy phones (the S6 Edge, S6 Edge+, or Note 5) for 30 days for the low, low price of $1. If you're an iPhone user who's curious about the competition, now is the time to question your allegiance. You'll get a month's worth of data, and since it's not like you have to hand your iPhone over to Samsung, you've essentially got two phones for a month. For a data hog, that's not a bad deal. Really, this should have become a standard a long time ago. According to Reuters , this surfer shelled out $390 to attach a device to his board that emits "an electronic force field that overpowers [sharks'] sensing organs." Sounds like the best $390 he ever spent. There are couple of retailers installing these devices, including SurfSafe and SharkShield -check out this video from the former showing you how its done.