Two groups, one at Berkeley University and another at Georgetown University, have successfully developed algorithms that can issue speech commands for digital personal assistants, like Siri and Google Now, in the form of bursts of sound unrecognizable to human ears. To a human, these commands just sound like random white noise, but they could be used to tell a voice-activated assistant like Amazon's Alexa to do things that its owner never intended. Nicholas Carlini, one of the Byzantine audio researchers, says that their tests have been able to activate open source audio recognizers, Siri, and Google Now in their tests, with accuracy on all three more than 90 percent. The noise sounds like a science-fiction alien transmission. It's a garbled mix of white noise and human voice, but certainly unrecognizable as a command. With this attack, any phone that hears the noise (they have to specifically target iOS or Android) could be unknowingly forced to visit a webpage that plays the noise, and thus infect other phones near it, Carlini says. In that same scenario, the webpage could also silently download malware onto the device. There's also the possibility these noises could be played over the radio, hidden in white noise or background audio. These attacks can happen because the machine is trained to think that there's readable or important data in almost every input, and also that some things are more common than others, says Goodfellow. It's easier to fool the network into thinking it's seeing a common object, because it thinks that it should be seeing it more commonly. That's why Goodfellow and a separate group at University of Wyoming are able to make the network classify images when there's nothing there, by making it identify white noise, randomly generated black and white imagery. In Goodfellow's research, random white noise he put through the network was most often classified as a horse. This coincidentally brings us back to Clever Hans, our not so mathematically-gifted horse from earlier. Much like Clever Hans, Goodfellow says these neural networks aren't really learning certain ideas, but just how to recognize when they finds the right idea. The distinction is slight, but important. This lack of foundational knowledge makes it easy to maliciously recreate the experience of finding the "right" outcome for the algorithm, which is actually a false answer. To understand what is, the machine also must understand what is not. Goodfellow found that when he trained his image classifying networks with both the natural images, and the doctored images (specifying that they were fake), he not only could reduce the efficiency of the attack by more than 90 percent, but the network was better at its original task. "When you start forcing them to explain the really unusual adversarial examples, it might come up with a even more robust explanation of what the underlying concepts are," Goodfellow says. The two audio groups have also used the same approach as the Google researchers to patch language recognition systems against their own attacks, by retraining their networks. They've achieved similar levels of success, with more than 90 percent reduction in attack efficiency. "It's probably fairly easy for an adversary to fool us, to deceive us. Some of that may be benign, some of that may not be." It's no surprise that this area of research has garnered interest from the United States military. In fact, the Army Research Laboratory actually sponsored at least two of the most recent papers, including the black box attack. While the Army Lab is proactive in funding research, this doesn't mean the tech is in active development for use in warfare. According to a spokesperson, research usually takes upwards of 10 years to make its way into soldier's hands. Ananthram Swami, a researcher with the U.S. Army Research Laboratory, has had varying levels of participation in recent papers concerning adversarial attacks. The Army's interest lies in the detection and stopping of purposefully deceptive data, in an age where not all sources of information can be vetted properly. Swami points to the bevy of data accessible from public sensors placed by universities and open source projects. "We don't necessarily control all that data. It's probably fairly easy for an adversary to fool us, to deceive us," Swami said. "Some of that may be benign, some of that may not be." He also says that as the Army has a vested interest in autonomous robots, tanks, and other vehicles, so this research is obvious. By studying this now, the Army would have a headstart for systems in the field that were immune to potential adversarial attacks. But any group in that uses deep neural networks, which is a quickly growing faction, should have concerns about the potential of adversarial attacks. While machine learning and artificial intelligence systems are still in their infancy, we're at a dangerous time where security oversights can have drastic results. Many companies are placing highly volatile information in the hands of artificially intelligent systems, which have not endured the scrutiny of time. Our neural networks are simply too young for us to know everything about them. A similar oversight led to Tay, Microsoft's Twitter chatbot that quickly turned into a genocidal racist. A torrent of malicious data, and a foreseeably terrible "repeat after me" function, led Tay to deviate wildly from her original programming. The bot was hijacked by bad training data from the wild, and serves as a handy example for what can happen when machine learning is poorly implemented. Kantchelian says that he doesn't think the door is completely closed for any of these attacks, even with the promising research from the Google team. "At least in computer security, unfortunately the attackers are always ahead of us," Kantchelian says. "So it's going to be a little dangerous to say we solved all the problems of adversarial machine learning by retraining."