Assets are a critical component of any business or organization, but tracking those assets can be one of the most time-consuming tasks of the entire work day. The good news is, barcodes, scanners, asset tracking software, and other asset tracking tools can streamline your work day and help to make your employees work more efficiently and productively. The best asset tracking software solutions and tools also enable organizations to track repair and maintenance schedules, asset locations, and other crucial asset information. We at Camcode understand the value of assets and the importance of utilizing high quality software and tools to track them. That's why we have compiled our list of the top asset tracking software solutions and tools. We have searched asset tracking software and tool reviews, top technology sites and blogs, and expert opinions to build this list of top-rated asset tracking software solutions and tools. Our asset tracking software and tool picks cover a range of industries and include the most useful features, such as automated check in and check out; asset tracking by site, location, user, serial number, and other criteria; alerts and notifications of overdue assets, maintenance needs, expiring warranties; multi-user and multi-location support; and more. To meet all of your asset tracking needs, our list of top asset tracking software solutions and tools also includes handheld scanners and mobile apps. Please note, our top 52 asset tracking software solutions and tools are listed here, in no particular order . Wasp Asset Software provides "asset management benefits for your business." The asset software saves valuable time and eliminates the need for spreadsheets, while ensuring proper inventory management for your organization. With Wasp Asset Software, you instantly know who has which assets, when they are due back, the date of purchase, and when you are due a refresh. Key Features: Automate the check in and check out to employees, vendors, or customers Go to your assets with mobile computers instead of bringing them back to your PC Add, edit, check in, check out, and move assets or quickly do audits with the mobility allowed by Wasp Asset Software Complete audits and cycle counts on a mobile computer for 100% accuracy Track assets by site, location, serial number, or user Alerts give notification of overdue checkouts, expiring warranties, schedule maintenance, certification/calibration, and more Available in standard, professional, or enterprise version Cost: Contact for a quote WiseTrack Core Asset Tracking Software manages data for assets, locations, users, vendors, contracts, and more. All of the data is organized in a central Asset Repository, supported by Microsoft SQL Server. WiseTrack Core features Windows user interface designs, making it simple and familiar for users. Key Features: Designed and tested with Microsoft technologies Built to scale Supports multiple users of the system Can run as a single stand-alone solution Integrates best practices, database design, relational integrity, and proper naming conventions Works with bar code technology, data importing/integration tools, and more Easily customizable to suit your specific needs Cost: Contact for a quote IntelliTrack Software manages inventory and assets, including anything that can be tagged or barcoded. IntelliTrack Fixed Assets Tracking Software is appropriate for a variety of industries and uses and makes it simple to manage assets. Key Features: Cost: FREE trial available; Contact for a quote ManagerPlus asset tracking software is an easy-to-use software system the helps companies increase their ROI while decreasing their operation costs. Track the location and return due dates for any asset with ManagerPlus Asset Tracking, an add-on module for ManagerPlus Desktop and ManagerPlus Cloud. ManagerPlus Asset Tracking also allows users to create as many locations as needed. Key Features: Cost: Contact for a quote FMIS Fixed Asset Management software is trusted in more than 40 countries. FIMS offers a full range of fixed asset management solutions to address your business requirements, from a simple fixed asset register to a full asset management and tracking system. With FIMS, you get a modular approach to tailor the software to your needs. Key Features: Cost: Contact for a quote EZOfficeInventory is a leading web-based asset tracking software solution. With EZOfficeInventory, you can easily access asset information from any device, from anywhere and at any time. EZOfficeInventory offers Android, iOS, and Windows apps and is accessible from any mobile device with a browser. Key Features: Cost: FREE trial available for 15 days Asset Panda seeks to help your organization organize and manage all of your assets. Their powerful asset tracking software and apps is designed to replace costly hardware, software, and spreadsheets. Asset Panda is a cloud-based asset tracking system that allows users to use smartphones or tablets to track assets with their free apps. Key Features: Cost: FREE trial available for 14 days; Contact for a quote Sage Fixed Assets allows you to take control of your fixed assets, including buildings, machinery, computers and electronics equipment, office furnishings, and even your own assets that your company builds. With Sage Fixed Assets, managing and overseeing the varied lifecycles of such a broad array of assets becomes simple and straightforward. Key Features: Manage depreciation of fixed assets over time with more than 50 depreciation methods Ensure compliance with government regulations Allocate cost and depreciation of individual or groups of assets to more than one funding source Easy-to-use wizards walk you through the inventory process 40 fully customizable fields for inventory control Track all of your project details, including status, contacts, notes, financials, and more Project, line item, and transaction-level viewing At-a-glance status updates with built-in reports Cost: Contact for a quote An enterprise asset management solutions company, Sunflower Systems specializes in deploying software tools to simplify asset management tasks. With its comprehensive Lifecycle Asset Management solution, Sunflower Systems enables the effective management, control, and use of property, improving accountability and regulatory compliance through the entire enterprise asset management lifecycle. Key Features: Cost: Contact for a quote 10. Tofino @tofinosoft Tofino Software is one of the world's leading suppliers of cloud-based SaaS resource and procurement management applications. Tofino offers a single integrated cloud solution for your organization's needs, including inventory management, asset management, maintenance management, and smart procurement.Their enterprise asset management solution includes logging, location tracking, calibration, repair and warranty information, and a digital library. Key Features: Cost: Contact for a quote Infor is known as a leading provider of enterprise applications, specialized by industry. Infor EAM is a highly configurable enterprise-grade asset management solution. Get the power to improve capital asset management to increase reliability, enhance predictive maintenance, ensure regulatory compliance, reduce energy usage, and support sustainability initiatives. Key Features: Available in industry-specific editions, including manufacturing , healthcare , hospitality , public sector , and oil and gas Schedule preventive maintenance and assign resources where they will be most beneficial Find out where and why your capital assets might fail and plan alternatives Predict equipment reliability problems so you can prevent them from happening Reduce inventory and purchasing costs and collect on warranty-related claims Manage assets to meet corporate performance goals Cost: Contact for a quote 12. 4Site Enterprise Asset Management 4Site Enterprise Asset Management (EAM) Suite is an integrated solution for maintenance, materials, and financial management. Extend the scope of your computerized maintenance management system beyond maintenance with 4Site EAM's tightly integrated capabilities for maintenance, purchasing, inventory, accounting, and financial activities. 4Site Asset Maintenance is the centerpiece of the 4Site integrated EAM suite. Key Features: Cost: Contact for a quote Fishbowl is the top selling inventory management software for QuickBooks users. Fishbowl is a standalone asset tracking solution that provides all of the tools needed for managing multiple warehouses, tracking shipments, and increasing efficiency. Key Features: Cost: FREE trial available ASAP Systems offers a comprehensive inventory and asset tracking system that is enabled by barcode and smartphone technology. Passport is ASAP Systems' asset tracking system that adapts to your business needs. With Passport, your organization can increase business productivity and automate asset management tasks. Key Features: Cost: FREE trial available; Contact for a quote GigaTrak offers solutions that meet a variety of needs, including asset tracking. Their asset tracking system is a complete asset management solution that is known for its reliability and ease of use. This powerful asset tracking software helps you find assets when you need them, with tracking available by person or location. Key Features: Cost: FREE trial available; Contact for a quote Apptricity is a world leading provider of innovative mobile enterprise software for supply chain management and integrated finance solutions. Apptricity Asset, available in standard, professional, and enterprise editions, allows organizations to multiple their efficiencies and maximize their ROI with end-to-end visibly and oversight for every aspect of their physical assets. Key Features: Cost: Contact for a quote System ID helps small to medium-sized businesses automate manual processes, scale existing systems, and optimize critical operations using barcode solutions. Their asset tracking software helps organizations save time and money, plus avoid auditing headaches and streamline asset processes. Key Features: Cost: Contact for a quote ScanMan software aims to make scanning easy. The ScanMan Asset Management System (SAMS) uses the latest hardware, software, scanning, and communications technology to manage assets. SAMS begins and ends with your ERP or Excel data and provides fully-detailed traceability of all of your assets. Key Features: Cost: Contact for a quote 4SIGHT Asset Track is an inventory management software that helps organizations track high-value inventory, including work-in-progress inventory and manufacturing equipment, returnable transport items, such as reusable tots, pallets, etc., using barcodes and other auto-ID technologies. Key Features: Cost: FREE trial available for 90 days; Contact for a quote TrackAbout provides SaaS asset tracking and management solutions for companies in packaged gas, chemicals, HME, oil field, university equipment, and more. With TrackAbout, employees get powerful asset tracking in their hands. TrackAbout also integrates with existing enterprise systems and provides relevant, accurate data to provide your organization with better control of your assets. Key Features: Cost: Contact for a quote BarControl Systems provides inventory control and supply chain management software solutions. Their asset/equipment management core module, iBEM, is an asset management software solution offering complete fixture, tool, equipment, and calibration tracking. Key Features: Cost: Contact for a quote 22. Physical Asset Tracking App Aridhio Technologies offers physical asset tracking software and their Physical Asset Tracking App to help organizations track physical assets with barcoded location tags. Employees can use their Android smartphone to scan asset and location barcodes, maintain transaction records, check out assets to personnel, and record and track maintenance with the Physical Asset Tracking app from Aridhio. Key Features: Download: Google Play : $8.99 23. Asset Manager Asset Manager is an Android app that originally was intended for organizing personal belongings but is appropriate for small businesses looking to inventory all of their assets. The user-friendly asset tracking and inventory management app is easy to use and allows users to categorize assets and assign locations to them. Key Features: Download: Google Play : FREE eQuip! delivers easy to use, flexible software. Their complete asset management platform allows organizations to focus on the business behind asset management while the asset tracking software does the rest. Choose eQuip! Asset Management to "eliminate work and maximize your savings." Key Features: Cost: Contact for a quote 25. AsTrack From BCSD Solutions, Australia's leading barcode solutions provider, AsTrack is an asset tracking tool for Android devices. AsTrack is a secure, easy-to-use asset management solution for tracing and tracking assets within a warehouse or store environment. Key Features: Download: Google Play : FREE TeleNav provides asset tracking and management solutions that give businesses control of remote and mobile assets, including trailers, containers, construction equipment, generators, and other moveable equipment. Their Android app, TeleNav Track, is a mobile asset tracking solution that requires a monthly subscription, available through AT&T, Sprint, or Verizon. Key Features: Download: Google Play : FREE to download, but contact your carrier for monthly subscription rates Enigma Telematics, a Viasat Group company, seeks to help businesses track, trace, and monitor their valuable mobile assets. Their Skyline Mobile Asset Management solution is a web-based tracking platform appropriate for construction, plant and agricultural machinery, waste management, logistics, service management, and road transport organizations. Key Features: Download: Google Play : FREE to download, but requires a current subscription to the Skyline Asset Tracking System for use 28. Asset Tracker Mobile @omnilink_sys Key Features: Omnilink gives organizations the ability to "track and monitor people and things brilliantly." Their Asset Tracker Mobile Android app allows users to track and monitor important assets from a single web or mobile interface. Download: Google Play : FREE Key Features: Sprocket CMMS is warehouse management software designed for lean warehouse facilities to proactively manage asset maintenance and reliability. The Sprocket CMMS asset management solution allows organizations to effectively manage assets by assessing and tracking equipment repairs, forecasting future needs for better capital planning, and keeping your facility competitive. Cost: FREE trial available; Contact for a quote Key Features: AssetWorks delivers industry-leading business solutions that help asset-intensive organizations control costs and streamline operations. Their mobile inventory solutions include a fixed asset data collection and on-site reconciliation system. Begin simply with a file containing the applicable fields for your physical inventory. Cost: Contact for a quote Key Features: TrackItLog, from Logware, lets organizations track anything, easily. The intuitive design and user-friendly dashboard allow organizations to see the status of all items at a glance, or easily search, sort, filer, and edit items and lendees. Online software, so you don't have to worry about downloading or installing anything Use your existing desktop, laptop, tablet, or mobile device Peripheral devices, such as barcode, scanners, and number pads are compatible, but not required High-quality customer service allows you to reach a real person 24/7 Unlimited assets at unlimited facilities Describe, search, and filter your inventory Maintain past records of items and the people who borrowed them Add, track, and store lendees Cost: FREE trial available; Contact for a quote Key Features: Cost: MapYourTag makes asset tracking from your smartphone or tablet simple. MapYourTag assists enterprises and other organizations in tracking, managing, and tracing their assets, equipment, tools, and other items in a single interface using any ID, barcode, or other tag. Track assets, equipment, and tools with the MapYourTag app, available for Android and iOS devices. 33. Asset Tracker Free Plan - 2 users, 10 assets Pro: $9/month - 20 users, 50 assets Enterprise: $19/month - 200 users, 50 assets Custom: Contact for a quote Google Play : FREE iTunes : FREE Key Features: Asset Tracker is a free inventory/asset tracking and management web application. Track any sort of asset, with a user-configurable number, type, and field name. Asset Tracker can hold multiple asset databases and has a plug-in system and simple authentication and access process. 34. RedBeam Asset Tracking Software Cost: FREE Key Features: RedBeam Asset Tracking Software helps organizations know what they have and where it is. With RedBeam, you can increase accountability, meet audit requirements, and minimize insurance costs and taxes. Manage your assets from anywhere with RedBeam's web-based asset tracking. 35. TCMax Asset Tracking System Cost: Contact for a quote Key Features: The Asset Tracking System from TCMax is real-time asset tracking software. Know exactly where your assets are at all times or track the status and condition of your assets with TCMax Asset Tracking software. Plus, quickly see who has your assets and pinpoint when and in whose possession asset defects occur. 36. Janam XM-66 Cost: Contact for a quote Key Features: The Janam XM-66 from Fixed Asset Tracking Software (FATS) is an asset tracking tool that is known for its ease of use, durability, and flexibility. This portable barcode scanner is a fully functional Windows Pocket Mobile portable computer, with a built-in laser barcode scanner. The Janam XM-66 also can be loaded with FATS software to become a powerful addition to the FATS Asset Tracking System . Cost: Microsoft Windows Mobile 6.1 High performance barcode scanning Small, light, and truly pocketable Backlit numeric keypad Brilliant QVGA color display Powerful computing performance Wireless communication options Sealed to IP54 standards 37. Real Asset Management Asset Tracking Software @RealAssetMgt Key Features: Janam XM 66 Windows Mobile PDA Scanner: $1,195 Janam XM 66 with no radio for secure areas: $1,345 Real Asset Management, a leader of fixed asset management solutions, offers fixed asset management and tracking software. Their fixed asset tracking software is a comprehensive data-capture and asset tracking system that increases the speed, accuracy, and efficiency of the asset audit. Key Features: Cost: Contact for a quote CG4 is an enterprise-level, web-based asset tracking software. With CG4, you can install the software locally or choose to have it installed on a hosted server. CG4 Asset Tracking is configurable and compatible with integrated scanners, smartphones, USB scanners, and Bluetooth-connected scanners using barcodes. Key Features: Cost: Contact for a quote Cost: Dedicated to helping organizations manage and save with their physical assets, Assettrac offers its Track in a Box, a "low-cost solution to all of your asset tracking needs." Assettrac Track in a Box includes a Newline PT980 barcode scanner, AP mobile scanning software, and more as an off-the-shelf solution to your asset tracking needs. 40. Bar|Scan Software Transforms the lifecycle management of all your assets, without installing new software Reduce management time and paperwork Move data between PC and handheld very easily Carry your asset inventory around with you Interrogate any asset via its barcode label to display all characteristics Conduct inventory audits and amend any details Link straight to XL or any other Windows-based management program Key Features: Track in a Box (scanner and software): £840.00 Software only: £250.00 Bar|Scan is a complete barcode asset management system that delivers specialized barcoding software. It is designed to meet a company's enterprise-wide asset information needs through the accuracy of barcodes and portable barcode readers, so that your organization can more accurately track assets in less time than a manual inventory. Key Features: Cost: Contact for a quote Finale Inventory offers cloud-based, adaptable inventory management. An ideal solution for small to medium-sized companies, Finale Inventory fits in with a company's existing accounting system, such as QuickBooks or Excel. Finale Inventory Asset Tracking Software includes is easy to understand and accessible from anywhere, so employees in various locations have consistent views of your records. Key Features: Cost: FREE trial available Unitech is known for its affordable, reliable data capture products. Their HT630 is a best-selling asset tracking tool that provides "the most straightforward user experience possible." This rugged handheld computer is powerful and flexible enough to work in a variety of environments, including warehouses and stockrooms to track your assets. Key Features: Cost: Contact for a quote Datalogic's PowerScan PM9500 is a rugged cordless reader that is suitable even for demanding applications. This area imager is a great fit as an asset tracking tool because it is equipped with a new generation of the Datalogic STAR Cordless System, which improves its versatility, ease of use, and radio range. Its soft-pulsed white illumination light is gentle on the eyes and is less troublesome for operators during scan-intensive situations. Key Features: Cost: Contact for a quote 45. TagSmart SHOOTRAC offers asset relationship management (ARM) in the form of a cloud-based, scalable, SaaS that gives organizations that ability to capture real-time data on its assets and mobile workforce. With SHOOOTRAC, you can gain efficiency and decrease cost while tracking your assets. Key Features: Cost: 46. WiiN Cost: Contact for a quote Key Features: TagSmart's cloud-based, asset tracking and inventory management platform is an easy, affordable way to track and manage assets. TagSmart works in conjunction with its free iOS and Android apps and is compatible with barcodes to help you track your assets when and where you need to. WiiN is a mobile tool management system that provides an efficient way to track your tool assets across all job sites. Search, locale, and request tools from other locations in seconds with WiiN's mobile device and cloud-based inventory solutions. Use your smartphone to track your tools with WiiN's mobile apps, so you can stop asking, "Where is it now?" Cost: Contact for a quote Key Features: iTunes : FREE for WiiN asset tracking service subscribers With Syrvel, you can "track anything - anywhere - anytime," for "elegant, purposeful, asset tracking." Servile gives users the ability to choose the iOS device on which to use it, and where to use it. Plus, you can make adjustments automatically as Syrvel notifies you of asset changes and opportunities. Key Features: Cost: Contact for a quote A tool tracking system designed especially for contractors and tool crib managers, Trimble AllTrak makes it possible to track construction asset usage and reduce loss. This professional tool and asset management system is highly efficient, giving contractors the solution they need for knowing where their tools are, who is responsible for them, when they should be returned, and when they need to be serviced. Key Features: Cost: Contact for a quote 50. Fixed Asset Tracking System (FATS) Intermec, part of Honeywell Scanning & Mobility, offers the SR61HD DPM to track your most valuable assets through their lifecycle. The SR61HD DPM is capable of scanning high density bar codes commonly used to track assets in defense, aerospace, automotive, pharmaceutical, and telecommunications industries. Key Features: Cost: Contact for a quote The Fixed Asset Tracking System (FATS), by Computer Directions, uses barcodes to track company assets, locations, people, and more. You can also track assets anywhere around the world with FATS Web, which allows you to keep your asset database in one place, even if your company has assets spread out over multiple buildings or cities. Key Features: Cost: Contact for a quote With Motorola Asset Management, you can manage and track radios, communications equipment, and parts inventory. Organizations can maintain complete asset visibility with the intuitive user interface, configurable asset organization, and item search. If you need to manage and track assets on the go, you can use the mobile application for remote access any time, on any device. Key Features: Cost: Contact for a quote Asset Tracking Solutions from Camcode: The IntelliScanner SOHO Black includes Inventory 2.0, so that you can track your assets and inventory quickly and easily. Made for small businesses, the IntelliScanner SOHO also works with programs on your existing Mac or PC, including Excel, FileMaker, LightSpeed, and Microsoft Office, so that you can scan barcodes into any program with a customizable keyboard emulation. Cost: $299.00 - Includes IntelliScanner SOHO Black portable barcode scanner, mini USB cable and neck strap, Inventory 2.0 software, media software, business integration kit, and keyboard emulation