15 wins & 25 nominations. See more awards " Storyline Adam Bell is a Toronto area History college professor. He is a rather somber man, largely because he is stuck in a routine, which includes a relationship with his live-in girlfriend, Mary. While watching a rental movie, he spots an actor in a bit part that looks like him. He becomes obsessed with finding out about this double of his. He learns that the actor's stage name is Daniel Saint Claire, whose legal name is Anthony Claire. Claire is a Toronto based actor with only a few on-screen credits, and is married to a woman named Helen who is currently several months pregnant. Adam then becomes obsessed with meeting Claire, who he learns upon first sighting that they look exactly the same, from the facial hair to a scar each has, but Claire who outwardly is more "put together" than Adam. Their lives become intertwined as Claire himself ends up becoming obsessed with Adam, but in a slightly different way. Written by Huggo Taglines: From the Director of Prisoners Details Release Date: 6 February 2014 (USA) Box Office Opening Weekend: $18,000 (USA) (14 March 2014) Gross: Company Credits Technical Specs See full technical specs " Did You Know? Goofs First time Adam is viewing Anthony's profile on Volga Talent Agency website the line "Voice demo available upon request" is listed 4th, under "eyes: blue." The second time Adams visits the site this same line is now 5th and appears just above "Valid Driver's License." "Voice:" has also been underlined, followed by a colon, where previously it was not. Finally, a 12th line also appears, "Experienced at Sailing and powerboating." See more " Quotes [first lines] : [leaving a message] Hello, darling, it's your mother. Thank you for showing me your new apartment. I'm worried about you. I mean, how can you live like that? Anyway, would you call me back? Let's get together again. I love you. See more " Connections References Dogma (1999) See more " Soundtracks Not So Much To Be Loved As To Love Performed by Jonathan Richman Written by Jonathan Richman Published by Rockin' Leprechaun Music Used by Permission. All Rights Reserved. Courtesy of Vapor Records/Sanctuary Records Group Inc., under license from Universal Music Canada See more " User Reviews Message Boards Recent Posts