Top Rated Movies #78 | Nominated for 1 Oscar. Another 32 wins & 61 nominations. See more awards " Cast Cast overview, first billed only: Chas Mastin ... Storyline Drugs. They consume mind, body and soul. Once you're hooked, you're hooked. Four lives. Four addicts. Four failures. Despite their aspirations of greatness, they succumb to their addictions. Watching the addicts spiral out of control, we bear witness to the dirtiest, ugliest portions of the underworld addicts reside in. It is shocking and eye-opening but demands to be seen by both addicts and non-addicts alike. Written by Jeff Mellinger <jmell@uclink4.berkeley.edu> Taglines: From the director of [Pi] Motion Picture Rating ( MPAA ) Rated R for intense depiction of drug addiction, graphic sexuality, strong language and some violence | See all certifications " Details Release Date: 15 December 2000 (USA) Also Known As: Réquiem por un sueño Box Office Budget: $4,500,000 (estimated) Opening Weekend: $64,770 (USA) (6 October 2000) Gross: $3,609,278 (USA) (2 March 2001) Company Credits Technical Specs See full technical specs " Did You Know? Trivia During Ellen Burstyn 's impassioned monologue about how it feels to be old, cinematographer Matthew Libatique accidentally let the camera drift off-target. When director Darren Aronofsky called "cut" and confronted him about it, he realized the reason Libatique had let the camera drift was because he had been crying during the take and fogged up the camera's eyepiece. This was the take used in the final print. See more " Goofs When Sara is trying on the red dress but it won't zip up all the way, in the mirror behind her you can see the 'fat suit' used to give Ellen Burstyn the larger appearance. See more " Quotes Sara Goldfarb : I'm somebody now, Harry. Everybody likes me. Soon, millions of people will see me and they'll all like me. I'll tell them about you, and your father, how good he was to us. Remember? It's a reason to get up in the morning. It's a reason to lose weight, to fit in the red dress. It's a reason to smile. It makes tomorrow all right. What have I got Harry, hm? Why should I even make the bed, or wash the dishes? I do them, but why should I? I'm alone. Your father's gone, you're gone. I got no one to ... [...] See more " Crazy Credits The closing credits feature pictures of Coney Island Amusement Park, and during the credits, the sounds of the shore can be heard. See more " Soundtracks Bugs' Got a Devilish Grin Conga Performed by The Moonrats Marcel Reginatto - Saxophone, Vocals Brian Emrich - Bass Guitar, Vocals Oscar Oñoz - Trumpet, Vocals Theodore Birkey - Keyboards, Vocals Tico Torres (as Hector Torres) - Percussion, Vocals Darren Aronofsky - Vocals Engineered, Programmed and Mixed by James Murphy for DFA at Plantain Recording House NYC See more " User Reviews Message Boards Recent Posts