Won 1 Oscar. Another 60 wins & 94 nominations. See more awards " Storyline While his latest movie Being John Malkovich (1999) is in production, screenwriter Charlie Kaufman is hired by Valerie Thomas to adapt Susan Orlean 's non-fiction book "The Orchid Thief" for the screen. Thomas bought the movie rights before Orlean wrote the book, when it was only an article in The New Yorker. The book details the story of rare orchid hunter John Laroche, whose passion for orchids and horticulture made Orlean discover passion and beauty for the first time in her life. Charlie wants to be faithful to the book in his adaptation, but despite Laroche himself being an interesting character in his own right, Charlie is having difficulty finding enough material in Laroche to fill a movie, while equally not having enough to say cinematically about the beauty of orchids. At the same time, Charlie is going through other issues in his life. His insecurity as a person doesn't allow him to act upon his feelings for Amelia Kavan, who is interested in him as a man. And Charlie's twin ... Written by Huggo Taglines: From the creator of Being John Malkovich, comes the story about the creator of Being John Malkovich. Details Release Date: 14 February 2003 (USA) Also Known As: The Orchid Thief Box Office Budget: $19,000,000 (estimated) Opening Weekend: $384,478 (USA) (6 December 2002) Gross: $22,245,861 (USA) (18 April 2003) Company Credits Technical Specs Runtime: See full technical specs " Did You Know? Trivia The flower shown during the time-lapse sequence at the end of the movie is called Amelia (an Osteospermum). See more " Goofs In the beginning of the film, when John is trudging through the swamp searching for orchids, he is seen up to his armpits in water. Once out of the water, when the park enforcement officer approaches them, the water line on LaRoche's shirt is clearly seen as just above the waist - about a foot lower than the point to which he was submerged. See more " Quotes [first lines] Charlie Kaufman : [voiceover] Do I have an original thought in my head? My bald head. Maybe if I were happier, my hair wouldn't be falling out. Life is short. I need to make the most of it. Today is the first day of the rest of my life. I'm a walking cliché. I really need to go to the doctor and have my leg checked. There's something wrong. A bump. The dentist called again. I'm way overdue. If I stop putting things off, I would be happier. All I do is sit on my fat ass. If my ass wasn't fat I would ... See more " Crazy Credits Meryl Streep's wardrobe designer is credited as "Mr. Streep's wardrobe" See more " Connections References Apocalypse Now (1979) See more " Soundtracks Alison Written and Performed by Elvis Costello Published by BMG Songs, Inc. o/b/o BMG Music Publishing Ltd. Courtesy of Rhino Entertainment Company/Elvis Costello Music By Arrangement with Warner Special Products and Courtesy of Elvis Costello Ltd. Under license from Demon Music Group Ltd. See more " Frequently Asked Questions User Reviews Message Boards Recent Posts