8 wins & 12 nominations. See more awards " Storyline Max is a genius mathematician who's built a supercomputer at home that provides something that can be understood as a key for understanding all existence. Representatives both from a Hasidic cabalistic sect and high-powered Wall Street firm hear of that secret and attempt to seduce him. Written by Anonymous Details Release Date: 10 July 1998 (USA) Box Office Budget: $60,000 (estimated) Opening Weekend: $31,069 (USA) (10 July 1998) Gross: $3,216,970 (USA) (27 November 1998) Company Credits Technical Specs See full technical specs " Did You Know? Trivia "Sol" the name of the Russian professor means sun in Spanish. See more " Goofs Max mentions that the Golden Mean is represented by the Greek letter theta. In fact it is denoted using the Greek letter Tau or, more commonly Phi, whereas phi is used to denote 1/Phi. Phi is for Phidias, a 5th Century BC Greek sculptor who employed the ratio. See more " Quotes [first lines] Maximillian Cohen : 9:13, Personal note: When I was a little kid my mother told me not to stare into the sun. So once when I was six I did. The doctors didn't know if my eyes would ever heal. I was terrified, alone in that darkness. Slowly, daylight crept in through the bandages, and I could see. But something else had changed inside of me. That day I had my first headache. See more " Crazy Credits In the original script, the man seen singing on the subway was referred to as the "Moustache Man". But since the part went to the clean-shaven Stanley B. Herman , the final movie credits list him as "Moustacheless Man". See more " Connections Referenced in Player (2012) See more " Soundtracks Angel Performed by Massive Attack Written by Robert del Naja (as Del Naja) / Grant Marshall (as Marshall) / Mushroom Vowles (as Vowels) / Horace Hinds (as Hinds) Published by Songs of Polygram International, Inc.(BMI)/BMG Music Publishing LTD.(PRS) Admin. by BMG Songs Inc.(ASCAP) Massive Attack appears courtesy of Circa Records LTD. See more " User Reviews Message Boards Recent Posts