Nominated for 1 Oscar. Another 21 wins & 35 nominations. See more awards " Storyline In 1767, the British Princess Caroline is betrothed to the mad King Christian VII of Denmark, but her life with the erratic monarch in the oppressive country becomes an isolating misery. However, Christian soon gains a fast companion with the German Dr. Johann Struensee, a quietly idealistic man of the Enlightenment. As the only one who can influence the King, Struensee is able to begin sweeping enlightened reforms of Denmark through Christian even as Caroline falls for the doctor. However, their secret affair proves a tragic mistake that their conservative enemies use to their advantage in a conflict that threatens to claim more than just the lovers as their victims. Written by Kenneth Chisholm (kchishol@rogers.com) Taglines: They changed a nation forever Details Release Date: 29 March 2012 (Denmark) Also Known As: A Royal Affair Box Office Opening Weekend: $38,212 (USA) (9 November 2012) Gross: $1,545,726 (USA) (26 April 2013) Company Credits Technical Specs See full technical specs " Did You Know? Trivia As part of her audition process Nikolaj Arcel took Alicia Vikander out drinking to see how well she could understand Danish. Vikander faked that she could understand and speak it well but at the end of the process when Arcel told her she had the role she didn't understand what he was saying until he switched to Swedish. See more " Goofs While all of the characters all speak Danish in the film, the court language in Denmark at the time was actually German. In real life neither Count von Bernstorff nor Johann Struensee spoke any Danish, and it is more than likely that Christian and Caroline also conversed in German rather than the "people's language." See more " Quotes [first lines] Caroline Mathilde : [writing a letter] I'm trying to remember him. Johann. I have to tell you about him. About us. Why we did the things we did. Caroline Mathilde : My beloved children, you do not know me, but I am your mother. Perhaps you have never forgiven me. Perhaps you hate me. I hope not. I now know that I will never see you again, so I am writing to tell you the truth, before it's too late. See more " Soundtracks Water Music, HWV 350, Suite No.3 in G Major (III. Minuet) Music by George Frideric Handel (as Georg Friedrich Händel) (P) Zentropa Music See more " Frequently Asked Questions User Reviews Message Boards Recent Posts