We couldn't be more excited to announce that all of our paid plans on GitHub.com now include unlimited private repositories. GitHub will always be free for public and open source projects, but starting today there are just two ways to pay for GitHub.com: Personal: $7/month Organization: $9/user/month, $25/month for your first five users One of the very best things about Git and other distributed version control systems is the ability to create a new repository without asking permission or getting approval. While this has always been true for our public plans, it hasn't been the case for individuals and teams working together in private. All that changes today. If you're new to GitHub, you can sign up to start using unlimited private repositories. If you're already using GitHub.com, read on to learn how these changes will impact you. Individual developers If you're using GitHub for private projects, now there's just one paid plan-unlimited private repositories for $7/month. No matter what you were paying before, your plan now includes as many repositories as you need to work on projects in private-you can even invite a few collaborators. Over the next few days, we will automatically move all paid accounts, from Micro to Large, to the new plan. If you're currently paying for one of those larger plans, look out for a prorated credit on your account. Organizations If you're currently paying for one of our organization plans, you'll have the option to upgrade to unlimited private repositories at any time . For many of you, this change will mean immediate freedom from repository limits and a better way to grow and pay for GitHub. We want everyone to have a plan with unlimited private repositories, but don't worry-you are welcome to stay on your current plan while you evaluate the new cost structure and understand how to best manage your organization members and their private repository access. And while we're currently not enforcing a timeline to move, rest assured that you'll have at least 12 months notice before any mandated change to your plan. A better way to work We've heard from developers across our community that this new model is a better way to work. We agree-through years of building our business and developing GitHub for you, we've seen first hand the advantages of working without private repository limits. We hope you'll create more repositories, write more code, and keep doing amazing things with GitHub. As always, we're here to help. Take a look at our new plans , learn how to update your personal or organization plan, or get in touch -we'd love to hear from you.